BLACK
Gray sky. vast and immeasurable. So featureless it seems
devoid of even an abstract perceptibility, it is as though
the gray could be right in front of your face. It could be
today, it could be a thousand years ago.
Slowly fading in are the sounds of a commotion. Perhaps a
bustling street corner, a marketplace, a mall. As the voices
grow louder we realize we could be at a football game or some
similar public forum.
Voices. Some laughing. THEN A SCREAM, only a whistle, we are
at a train station, perhaps?
PAN DOWN TO REVEAL:
Horizontal tangles of barbed wire creep up, followed by mcze
of the same, until we come to a large, brick archway. Upon it
is a sign:
ARBEIT MACHT FRIE
And then more gray. This in the form of German uniforms along
side a train on the inbound for an unmistakable stop at what
can only be a concentration camp. We will punctuate.
TITLES:
POLAND - 1943
The train grinds to a halt in the brown snow that smears the
ground.
Just beyond the railroad tracks are literally hundreds if not
thousands of expatriated Jews bound for the inevitable.
The doors to the car are flung open and the friendly talk and
laughing of German soldier to German soldier gives way to the
yelling.
The words are not necessary. The language is not ours and the
images say enough.
Men, women and children are herded off the train like cattle
toward a large open yard. There they huddle until the Germans
begin to shout, and shove through the mob.
A SINGULARLY PLEASANT LOOKING GERMAN walks into the arena,
bringing near silence with him. He is an officer, in the
impressive black sharpness of the SS. His face is warm and
inviting. He smiles to the unfortunate "relocated" as he
walks among them. Some even smile and allow themselves a
moment of hope.

2.

The Pleasant German never wavers in his demeanor as he
quietly speaks to the other soldiers. When he is done talking
to them, they laugh loudly, happily; saluting him and going
quickly to their work.
It is deceptively promising, and some of the Jews begin to
relax... smile.
ANGLE ON:
A LITTLE BOY. A boy who will not die this day. A boy who will
live to see the end of the war and the world of the future.
He smiles now too as the Pleasant German passes by him in the
crowd and runs a gloved hand through the little boy's filthy
hair. Nan and boy share a smile as though the war had never
been. The boy looks up at HIS WORKIED PARENTS - a sturdy
looking couple, who also relax, but none so much as to
forget. Then the German is gone.
And the screaming begins.
The soldiers push their way through the mob using rifles as
pikes, screaming and terrorizing the lot of them. Suddenly,
it is clear what they are doing. They are dividing the mob
into smaller groups.
Soon, the groups themselves become evident.
Men from women. Children from adults. The family tries to
stay together, clinging to one another dearly, until finally,
they are put upon by a number of gray uniforms and pulled
apart.
The boy is dragged screaming, his feet no longer touching the
ground. Two soldiers carry him as they follow the back of a
large column of children being led through a gate of barbed
wire so dense, it resembles wool.
The gate closes and the boy looks back to see his parents along with many others - being restrained by a number of
soldiers. The screaming is deafening.
And the boy's can be heard above it all. The soldiers seem to
be having a hard time carrying such a frail child. The
farther they get from the fence, the heavier he seems to get,
until they are literally pulling him as though he were
anchored to something.
Then we notice again that his feet do not touch the ground.
His outstretched fingers claw at the thin air and he screams
until the blood in his face is blue.

3.

The soldiers are literally pulled back a step and they begin
to slip in the mud. They look at one another and then over
their shoulder as they hear a sound.
A groaning, creaking sound. And then the unmistakable twang
of wire stretched to snapping.
ANGLE ON:
The fence. The gate that separates the parents. It bows
toward them like iron filings to a magnet, and several of the
strands of barbed wife have given way.
The boy continues to scream as all the other faces simply
freeze and wonder.
One of the soldiers pulls a pistol from his belt and brains
the boy violently.
He slumps, and the soldiers carrying him spring forward as
though a rope that was holding them back has been cut. They
nearly fall, looking at one another with some concern, some
confusion....
Then they follow the line of children that has gotten ahead
of them.
ANGLE ON:
The boy's parents watch him as he, as they, are taken away.
The rest of their story is as you would expect.
EXT. SKY - DAY
Bright, bright blue framing blinding white sun.
PAN DOWN AGAIN TO REVEAL:
The golden high grass of the Savannah.
TITLES
KENYA - 1972
The hot scorched arid savannah.
A group of children at play. Tribal children who, without
help of the titles could be from any age.
They run through a tiny village of huts and thatch, playing a
version of tag, it would seem.

4.

One child is it, than another. Each trying to avoid being
tagged though never going far enough away to miss the fun.
One girl in particular. A PRETTY GIRL OF 12, is tagged and
immediately shunned.
She chases kids this way and that, but to no avail. She is
not strong enough, nor agile enough, to win.
It is clear the other children know this and it begins to
make them giggle.
The giggles become laughter and the laughter becomes a taunt,
and before we even realize, the inherent cruelty of children
let loose becomes evident.
They have now formed a circle, at first avoiding her touch
with distance, but now growing tighter with menace. Soon she
is no longer the thing to be afraid of, but the thing that
should fear. In the unspoken manner of children at prey, the
group begins to chant in their native tongue - a song we have
not heard but sung in a way none too inviting.
The girl now moves to the center of the circle, no longer
wishing to tag anyone.
ONE DEVIOUS CHILD seems to get an idea. He picks up a small
stone and tosses it at the Pretty Girl. Another child follows
suit and then another. Before long, mob rules gives way and
stones are being tossed and then thrown. Small and then
larger.
It grows to the brink of frenzy, the laughing and the
shouting not too unlike the noise of the previous scene.
So much so, we may miss the first flake of snow. The children
certainly do. It is snowing for a good half minute before the
last of them stops.
By then, the snow is thick as flies and wafting down to melt
instantly on the hot African soil that has never seen snow
before.
ANGLE ON:
Adults come out of their huts and in from the fields and the
whole of the village is soon gathered round the little girl,
staring up at the clear blue sky and the snow that falls from
nowhere. From nothing.
One by one, all eyes fall on the little girl and the looks of
curiosity become looks of fear. Of superstition.

5.

Punctuated by a solid thump.
And then another,
AN OLD MAN looks down at his feet and sees a tiny, misshapen
ball of ice, no bigger than his eye. Be looks at it, then
bites it, then pops it in his mouth - breath turning to
steam.
Another such chunk of ice pops him on the head. THE CROWD
LAUGHS.
They look up again and see that mixed with the snow are tiny
pellets of hail, seeming to increase in number as the snow
mysteriously wanes.
And the pellets are getting larger. Until they land as hunks.
Then bricks.
And when the first one brings blood to a YOUNG BOY'S brow,
they scatter.
The girl drops to the ground and covers her head as
hailstones the size of coffee cans plow into the Earth as
well as the weaker shacks of grass and mud. Before long, they
hew a path of destruction that devastates the village.
And all along the girl sits huddled in the dust, crying. As
hailstones fall in a circle around her, never coming closer
than ten feet or so.
INT. SCHOOL GYMNASIUM - NIGHT
ONE MORE SKY. This one a backdrop. Cheap paint and tissue
paper hung with hooks on a wall just behind the basket on a
full court.
As we pull back, we see the skyline of New York, crudely made
out with its silhouette buildings of dark gray and black windows of yellow.
Among the famous landmarks represented is the Statue of
Liberty, complete with a real lightbulb burning in the torch.
We are at a prom. The theme is RHAPSODY IN BLUE and the decor
has made tragic efforts to show it. The tablecloths are blue,
the napkins are blue - far too many of the tuxes are powder
blue, and the blue eyeshadow is as heavy as expected.
Peter Gabriel's "In Your Eyes" gives painful indication to
the era, but here it is, nonetheless:

6.

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA - 1986
MOVE ACROSS THE FLOOR and through the swaying, clutching,
sweating dancers to the bathroom.
Through the door to the usual IHT. BOTS BATHROOM
Several boys are here, bowties undone - undipped in most
cases. Smoking, drinking from whatever inventive container
was used to smuggle in booze. Breath freshener and Visine are
the chaser.
Some of the guys are rolling joints while others make the sad
effort to wave smoke away. Who are they kidding? It's a fog
in here.
MOVE DOWN THE ROW OF TOILET STALLS to one in particular. Here
we find A FRECKLED KID standing in front of mirror, clearly
holding himself up from the effect of God knows what.
He talks to his friend in the stall behind him.
FRECKLED KID
Man, you are something else. What's the
matter with you?
His friend is on the toilet with his head in his hands. He
seems to be in some pain. He is SCOTT SUMMERS - AGE 17.
SCOTT
My eyes... my eyes are killing me. The
Freckled kid offers a small plastic
bottle.
FRECKLED KID
You want some Vitine, man?
SCOTT
My... eyes.
He knocks the bottle away.
The freckled kid looks and sees that Scott's eyes are
watering so badly that tears are literally streaming through
his fingers.
He goes back to the niirror to look at his own.
SCOTT (CONT'D)
... they're burning...

7.

The freckled kid turns back to him.
FRECKLED KID
Dude, how much did you smoke?
SCOTT
I didn't smoke anything.
Scott looks up, taking his hands away, revealing for an
instant that his eyes are merely bright red embers in his
head. Featureless but for the color.
Freckles takes a step back.
IHT. GYM - OUTSIDE BOYS ROOM
A blinding flash of light shows through the frosted glass in
the double door and cuts through the crack into the dark of
the gym.
All who see it are stunned. Frozen. A lingering moment of
confusion, then:
BOOM, the doors to the Boys Room burst open and the occupants
scatter into the gym.
INT. GYM - STALL
Freckles is still there, legs locked.
FRECKLES' P.O.V.
He looks at Scott who is now crying meekly in the stall.
The door swings closed TO REVEAL:
A SMOKING, MOLTEN HOLE in the stall door, framing Scott's
face perfectly.
INT. SENATE HEARING ROOM - DAY
The typical assembly of G.O.P. creeps. A lot of long chins
and attempted charismatics.
The room is crowded with press and the like to the point that
there is very little room to even move. It is quite similar
to another sort of hearing from days past, only this time the
Senator in charge is not a drunken paranoid, but a very sober
one.
SENATOR SCOTT FRANK KELLY sits in the middle of it all having
mastered the media much better than those around him. This is
why he is the chosen front man.

8.

Just behind him sits ROBERT GUYRICH - clearly a man behind
the man whispering almost constantly in the Senator's ear.
A WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
(amplified via microphone)
The X-factor... also know as the imitator
gene, exists within every creature on the
planet. '
A VERY SIMPLE IMAGE OF A GENE. Very simply drawn. It has,
literally, a "switch" drawn on it and the words "ON" and
"OFF."
WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.; CONTINUING)
It is the gene which tells our bodies
whether to change or to stay the same. It
can be, literally, turned on or off,
depending on whether or not it receives
the appropriate cues from the
environment. One example is the
weather...
WE SEE graphic images making this clear, we see COLD WEATHER
and a PRIMITIVE MAN WITH A LOT OF HAIR.
WOMAN'S AMPLIFIED VOICE (O.S.; CONT'D)
For instance, as the planet gradually
warms up, people whose mutator genes tell
their bodies to adapt appropriately will
live on and continue to multiply. Others
will die out. Gradually, the species will
change.
As the graphic changes and depicts WARMER CLIMATE, the HAIR
STARTS TO DISAPPEAR ON THE MAN'S BODY.
WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.; CONTINUING)
Normally this process takes thousands and
thousands of years. It is the reason we
have evolved from homo habilus...
FOOTAGE REFLECTS THE VARIOUS STAGES OF HUMAN EVOLUTION.
Accompanying it is a GRAPH with a DIAGONAL LINE indicating
the ascent of the "human being" as we know it. Accompanying
the graph are evolving images of the "evolution of man.
WOMAN'S AMPLIFIED VOICE (O.S.
CONT'D)
...to homo erectus, to hoao s<piens
neanderthalis, and, finally, to homo
sapiens sapiens.

9.

REVERSE ANGLE - WE'RE IN A SENATE HEARING ROOM
PACKED with reporters and photographers. There's a DAIS ~ a
raised panel of SENATORS — and a second, lower PANEL. This is
where the "experts* are testifying.
CLOSE ON:

JEAN GREY

A strong, attractive* woman in her early 30's. Lobbying for
mutant rights, she addresses the room.
A simple placard before her: JEAN GREY. GENETICALLY ENHANCED
RIGHTS ASSOCIATION.
JEAN
But there's a problem...
ON THE SCREEN
The trajectory of the diagonal line changes: at a point
marked "homo sapiens sapiens" the line flattens.
JEAN
Once we humans stopped adapting to our
environment and began adapting our
environment to suit us — in other words,
once we started making clothes, building
shelters and using heat...
QUICK SHOTS: early huts, early clothing; then early homes,
later homes, air conditioning, cars, modern high-rises; etc.
JEAN (CONT'D)
... the imitator gene went into dormancy,
and mankind itself stopped evolving. And
hasn't, for thousands of years.
WIDER
On the room, the reactions, and on JEAN herself.
Until now.

JEAN (CONT'D)

Jean directs her LASER POINTER to the words "PRESENT DAY,"
where the "evolution line" has resumed its rise.
JEAN (CONT'D)
For the first time in millennia, the
earth is changing faster than our ability
to keep up with it.

10.

FOOTAGE: HUMAN BEINGS, now, like the animals earlier, have
MINOR "MUTATIONS": we see IMAGES of minor "POWERS"- someone
who can seemingly MOVE SHADOWS with his hands; Uri Geller
BENDING SPOONS; someone else who appears to be able to SINGE
PAPER WITH HER EYES; someone else who can briefly MAKE AN
OBJECT BLUR AND THEN REFOCUS...
JEAN (CONT'D)
These are but a few of the reasons we are
seeing what some are calling the
beginnings of another stage of evolution.
A GAVEL bangs on the dais. A MICROPHONED VOICE interrupts.
Bearing down is the flamboyant SENATOR SCOTT "FRANK" KELLY, a
conservative from Florida, and the hearing's Chairman.
SENATOR KELLY
You' re avoiding the question I posed to
you at the beginning of this hearing. Ms.
Grey. Three words: Are mutants dangerous?
JEAN
Considering it is the agenda of this
committee to register mutants as though
they were KELLY
It is the appointed task of this
committee to present to the President a
comprehensive report that he may best
decide weather or not to pass a
registration act. We are not here to weed
out mutants. We are merely hear to assess
their potential threat - if any - to
national security.
Another SENATOR (LUCINDA ROWEE) speaks into her microphone:
SENATOR ROWEE
Ms. Grey, to what extent are these
mutations actually a threat?
Jean takes a beat; processes the question. Then:
JEAN
Some mutations manifest themselves as
powers, but these are remote in the
extreme. Most are merely physical
alterations.
SENATOR ROWEE
But are they dangerous.

11.

JEAN
A person driving a car can be dangerous.
SENATOR ROWEE
Well, we do license people to drive?
A LAUGH from the gallery.
JEAN
But not to live.
Kelly has been waiting for an opening like this and is ready.
He raises a blown-up photograph: a grainy, super-zoomed,
somewhat obscured image of a CAR ON A FREEWAY which appears
to have "melted." Now he's really playing to the crowd.
SENATOR KELLY
This was taken by a traffic control video
in Orange County. A man in a minor
altercation literally melted the car in
front of him. I don't know where you come
from, Ms. Grey, but where I come from,
you don't go melting people's cars when
they cut you off. You do it the old
fashioned way — you give em the finger.
But what you presume to tell this
committee JEAN
I presume nothing. I am here to tell you
that in time, the mutator gene will
activate in every living human being on
this planet. Perhaps even your Children,
Senator.
KELLY
I can assure you, there is no such
creature in my genes.
The room LAUGHS. Kelly mistaken thinks it is for him, until
the double meaning occurs to him. He is momentarily
embarrassed, but he quickly recovers.
KELLY (CONT'D)
That was funny, I have to admit. You
certainly seem to be amused, Ms. Grey.
JEAN
To be frank, Senator, I am tickled.
The ROOM LAUGHS, good-naturedly.

12.

KELLY
I wonder how tickled this committee would
be to learn about your associate
Professor Xavier.
Jean reacts now, surprised to hear these words from Kelly.
KELLY (CONT'D)
Or about his so called "school for the
gifted." Come now, Dr. Grey. As you are
so open to disclosure, share with the
people here the purpose of this school.
Jean quickly collects herself.
JEAN
There is indeed a... a school
specifically designed KELLY
For mutants. Is that not correct, Ms.
Grey?
The Senator now gestures to the monitor which now displays a
MASSIVE ESTATE MANSION BEHIND A HIGH IRON GATE.
Mutters of confusion from the crowd.
Jean bows her head.
KELLY (CONT'D)
In fact, a school whose student body is
almost entirely these so-called remote
cases. Remote in the extreme, I believe
you said. So remote, the location and
purpose of this school was, until this
very moment, unknown to the American
people.
The confusion is finding focus. And the focus is Jean.
JEAN
That was simply for the protection of the
students who KELLY
Who what? Who what, Ms. Grey? Who melt
metal with their minds, perhaps control
human thought? what goes on in that
school that no normal person has been
allowed to set foot inside? Who is this
Professor Xavier and what exactly is he
preparing these mutants for?

13.

JEAN
Professor Xavier is without question the
finest KELLY
Answer the question, Ms. Grey. What goes
on in that school?
JEAN
Education. Enlightenment.
KELLY
Enlightenment indeed, well, I'll put this
to you, Dr. Grey. I an of the thinking
that this Professor Xavier is an
extremist. Nothing more than a Michigan
Militia-man with a degree and some very
"extreme" parlor tricks. Tricks he does
not yet want the world to see.
Now the crowd has chosen it's side and Jean is not on it.
JEAN
There are some things the world is not
ready to KELLY
Ladies and Gentlemen of the press.
Members of the committee. I put it to you
that any mutant left alone may indeed be
harmless to our national security; But if
history has taught us anything.- power
unchecked is power to be corrupted.
Unless we begin immediately to take
action against the efforts of people like
Dr. Grey and this... this Professor
Xavier, a minority of a few thousand may
very well be organized against a
population of millions - totally
unprepared for whatever unearthly
perversions await them.
The crowd reacts loudly in support of the Senator's
pontificate. Some cheer, some roar, some yell obscenities at
Jean.
He starts at Jean, delivering his last.
KELLY (CONT'D)
They are very real. They are among us. We
must know who they are. And above all, we
must know what they can do.

14.

AS THE SHOUTS OF THE MOB RISE AND GIVE WAY TO:
EXT. SHOW COVERED WXLDERBESS - DAY
PLACID SNOW, mountains in the distance. A magnificent vista,
suddenly disturbed by movement below.
A FIGURE RUNNING AT INHUMAN SPEED. A moment later ANOTHER
FIGURE ENTERS FRAME. Larger... moving slightly faster.
TITLES:
CENTRAL ALASKA
THE NOT TOO DISTANT FUTURE
CLOSE UP ON:
An anomaly, to say the least. A man whose features are so
much like an animal, one would think he had animal in his
blood. His hair is course and black, sprouting wildly from
his head. He is LOGAN. We will come to know him well. As well
as we can.
Then to the thing following him. So much like an animal
himself, he makes Logan look perfectly human. Larger,
fiercer, somehow inherently more savage. This is called
SABERTOOTH. The reasons are obvious'.
Teeth like said animal and clawed fingers to match.
Mutants of course. Two who must certainly be members of a
class "remote in the extreme."
EXT. WOODED HILLSIDE
Logan hits a slope at full speed, making it most of the way
proper before sliding the last of it on his heels.
At the bottom, he comes to an awkward skid on the frozen bed
of ice that is a lake at other times of year.
He makes an agile footed run across the ice, but adjusting
has closed the gap.
SABERTOOTH LEAPS and leaps far, overtaking Logan and landing
on his back.
FEROCIOUS TEETH SINK DEEP INTO LOGAN'S SHOULDER. A scream
fills the wilderness for miles. Blood flows.
Sabertooth, in a bloodlusting rage, slams Logan down only to
smash a whole in the ice with his prey.

15.

Logan clamors free and dives under, caught instantly by the
current and swept away.
SILENCE
Sabertooth stares at the hole in the ice in frustration. Like
the cat he resembles so closely, he watches carefully,
suddenly making out bubbles under the surface, trailing away.
Be is quickly after them, clawed feet working as cleats in
the ice.
UNDER ICE
Logan struggles, already short of breath and at the same time
trying to swim madly from the shadow above. The muffled sound
of feet pounding like a heartbeat.
ABOVE ICE
Sabertooth stops again... Listening, looking, searching with
senses sharpened beyond that of human comprehension. Be
smiles.
WHAM
He droves a monstrous fist through the ice and reaches in up
to his shoulder.... searching....
SILENCE AGAIN.
Then a violent yank. The ice gives way to the soaked and naif
frozen Logan who struggles to free himself from Sabertooth' s
grasp. A large creature dwarfed by a larger one, he is
hoisted in the air, claws tearing his neck.
ANGLE ON:
Logan's right hand. His skin ripples and pulsates, trembles
from cold... or perhaps something else.
SUDDENLY, three steely claws, some nine inches long, spring
from the very flesh just above the knuckles.
A stunned pause as both he and Sabertooth look down at the
menacing rake.
Then Logan drives it home, sinking up to his hand into
Sabertooth's side.
A HOWL unlike anything ever heard and Sabertooth throws Logan
away from him, the claws tearing across his ribs as he does
so.

16.

Logan flies several yards before hitting the ice and sliding
several dozen more. Be is stopped by his head as it hits a
rock on the far shore.
Sabertooth skulks over to him, taking a hand away from the
gash on his side in time to watch the fatal-looking wounds
heal as quickly as the sealing of a Ziplock bag.
With the sound of Sabertooth's breathing comes the rising of
the wind...
Snow from the ground begins to swirl in the bitter cold air.
Sabertooth is nearly upon Logan now and the wind rises
further, until he must shield his eyes from the bitter, icy
As he approaches, we see the fresh claw marks on Logan's face
healing before our very eyes, leaving not so much as a
scratch.
A SUDDEN FLASH OF LIGHT .
Lightning? No. Lightning is not red.
Sabertooth looks around, puzzled, then down at Logan's
motionless body. Then to his feet where a hole in the ices
spouts bubbling water.
The wind blows so violently now that he nearly misses two
figures standing only a few yards away - mere silhouettes in
the icy haze.
A closer look tell us it is a man and a woman, THEY WEAR
STRANGE UNIFORMS of form-fitting material - the man wears a
reflective visor that hides his eyes. The woman's face is
bare, revealing dark skin and penetrating eyes.
ANOTHER FLASH - one that seems to come from the visor itself.
An intense beam of red light. Sabertooth looks down and sees
the ice at his feet has melted - more accurately been melted away.
Be plunges through the ice like a mark in a carnival dunking
tank. The more he claws at the edges f the hole, the more the
flashes of li-jht make the hole t ger. Hi* massive weight and
hairy coat quickly suck him down.
The TWO FIGURES - CYCLOPS AMD STORM - obviously two of the
children we saw earlier now grown - stand over the whole and
calmly watch Sabertooth gather himself and swim back to the
surface.

17.

Storm looks down at the hole, concentrating her intense gaze.
The wind whips further, and her skin dimples with goosebumps
as the temperature drops and the water in the hole begins to
freeze.
Sabertooth manages to smash through and again, Cyclops fires
a beam of light to rob him of an edge to grab on to.
Storn then further forces the temperature down, freezing the
ice thick and thicker.
UHDER THE ICE
Sabertooth pounds violently as the ice above him drives him
further and further down, becoming more and more a wall
between him and his prey.
Finally, he wisely concedes.
With one last look at the two mysterious figures now nearly
obscured by the ice, he tuns his body and swims away with the
same agility he had on land.
ABOVE ICE
THE SNOW AND WIND ARE NOW VIOLENTLY RAGING
Cyclops and Storm walk over to Logan and look down at him
curiously, observing the metallic claws that seem to grow out
of his flesh. More puzzling is the way in which they retract,
vanishing into holes in his flesh which heal as quickly as
the wound in Sabertooth's side.
LOGAN'S P.O.V.
They look at one another, wondering. Logan's eyes begin to
close as they obscure the last of all perceptible detail.
FROM WHITE
TO BLACK
A LONG AND PEACEFUL BLACKNESS
Finally giving way to white - a slice across the middle which
widens and finds some clarity
ZHT. LABORATORY - OAT
Logan slowly opens his eyes and winces at the assault of
white light.

18.

LOGAN'S P.O.V.
A simple, white, acoustic tile ceiling with -soft white
fluorescent lights. As he gains more focus, a woman's face
comes into view, seeming to hover above him.
It is Jean Grey, inspecting him more than looking.
Then another face. This one on the front of a shiny, bald
head. PROFESSOR XAVIER as we will learn. An intense and
intelligent man just to look at him.
Finally, from the top of the frame comes another head. This
one covered with hair. In fact, this thing is covered
entirely in hair. All of it blue. If not for the small
glasses on its face, we might think it was a grizzly with a
die job. This is BEAST. What else are you going to call him?
Logan looks to Jean and Xavier, still groggy.
Am I dead?

LOGAN

XAVIER
Miraculously, no.
Clearly no the answer he wanted.
LOGAN
Well, there's always tomorrow.
Jean and Xavier glance at one another.
LOGAN (CONT'D)
Who... who are you?
Xavier holds up a set of dog tags on a chain.
XAVIER
Whose are these? A relative? Your
grandfather perhaps?
LOGAN
Mine.
(Looks at Beast, realizing)
What are you?
Beast takes no offense. Be simply grunts and smiles, Xavier
looks at the dog tags, puzzled.
LOGAN (CONT'D)
Where am I?

19.

XAVIER '
Sleep, Logan.
And he does.
IMT. LABORATORY - LATER
Beast and Jean Grey wear Surgical scrub suits, gloves and
masks.
Logan is on a flatbed x-ray, the red, lighted crosshairs
beading in between his eyes as images are taken over and
over.
Jean Grey looks down and sees Logan's hand pulsating in much
the way it was before. Suddenly, the skin parts and the
steely claws come slowly out and then retract.
She looks up at Beast who is already looking at them, amazed.
When the claws retract entirely, the skin heals quickly.
Beast lets out a "hmph" of interest and picks up a scalpel.
He makes a tiny incision on Logan's arm which heals as fast
as the blade can cut. Then he makes a deeper one, longer, and
again until he is making a cut six inches long and a full
inch into the muscle.
It heals in seconds.
INT. LABORATORY - LATER
CLOSE UP ON:
Logan's hand. A claw involuntarily emerges.
A VICE GRIP comes into frame and quickly grabs it, guiding it
to a voce and clamping it there. Beast turns the crank with
all his strength to hold the claw fast.
PULL OUT TO REVEAL:
Jean Gray rolls in platform work bench with an adjustable
drill. She wears thick safety goggles.
They bring the carbide tip down and start to grind away at
the claw. The drill heats accelerates, then snaps.
LATER
Beast covers his face with a welding visor and ignites a blow
torch. He gives the claw a good twenty seconds of intense
acetylene before he stops.

20.

He takes a gloved finger and touches the blackened metal. The
scoring wipes away to reveal the unblemished metal.
LATER
Jean and Beast now staxid back in a corner of the room behind
Scott Summers (Cyclops), no longer in the uniform we first
saw him in, but workout sweats. The visor seems to be a
staple, even when casual.
He looks at Logan in the far corner of the room and focuses
on the claws.
AN INTENSE READ BEAM IF ENERGY shoots from the visor and
blasts away at the claws. - this time longer than the blow
torch and the drill combined.
No damage. Not even a scratch.
Curious, he looks over to the wall, REVEALING FULL BODY X-RAYS . Push in until we start to see details of the full
skeleton - obviously Logan's, betrayed by the claws along the
forearm.
It is clear the skeleton is not normal. Only merely human in
its form.
INT. ZAVIER'S OPPICE
For the first time we see him full frame and realize Xavier
is in a wheelchair.
He sits at his desk, puzzling over the dog tags that Logan
claimed were his.
CLOSE UP ON:
The dog tags.
Nothing odd about them at a glance. Military dog tags,
weathered and beaten, but certainly plain.
Canadian Military, Logan's name, rank and serial, number. The
odd thing is the date of birth.
12/4/-- No year.
His thumb feels the indentation of the word at the bottom of
the tag that does not seem to fit here.
WOLVERINE.
Jean knocks on a door before entering.

21.

Xavier looks up from behind his desk and waits.
Well?

XAVIER

JEAN
I think it's time to rewrite the periodic
table.
IHT. CAVERNOUS ROOM - DAY
CLOSE UP ON:
The Periodic Table of Elements. A chart made up of blacks
depicting the elements and their chemical symbols.Among the
standards like Gold (Au) and Iron (I) and Oxygen (O2) is a
new square on simple red construction paper tacked to the
top.
It contains simply a large letter "A".
TRACKING SHOT THROUGH:
We are in a laboratory of sorts, quite different from the one
we just left.
MORTIMER TOYNBEE, a dim, loyal thug whose agile leaping
ability, and superhuman strength have earned him the name
TOAD, lazily reads the Sports Illustrated Swimsuit issue. His
long tongue shoots out — zip — and turns the page.
Across the room, JOHN ALLERDYCE, a wiry, red head whose
ability to control fire with his fingers has earned him the
name PYRO, is watching TV as he casually weaves a lighted
match in and out of his fingers like a magician manipulating
a coin.
They are a bestial and sinister bunch. In the corner we see
BLOB, no explanation needed, devouring a BUCKET of cereal,
precariously balanced on his huge belly. All of-them sit
within sight of:
A MACHINE
A fantastic device which occupies a hallowed space in his
lab. It is meticulously designed, and, with its intricate
circuitry, wires, and power boards, it resembles most closely
(and only resembles, because, truly it's like nothing we've
ever seen before) a combination of a microwave oven and a
fantastic light source — only far sore dark and foreboding.
They all watch the television. CNN in fact.

22.

The image on the screen is a helicopter shot of ELLIS ISLAND,
with Liberty island and the famous Statue in the background.
NEWSCASTER (O.S.)
After years of tension and criticism of
U.S Policies from abroad, preparations
are nearly completed tor the upcoming
fiftieth anniversary gala celebrating the
formation of the United Nations. With
nearly every invitation confirmed and
more coming every hour, the occasion
promises to be the largest single
gathering of world leaders, if not the
first ever in history. Truly an
achievement for the President who has
made it his administration's agenda to
firm foreign relations. The Celebration
will be held on Ellis Island - a symbolic
gesture from the President who welcomes
the nations of the world to a more open
and accepting United States than in
recent years.
Blob belches his skepticism deafeningly and the others laugh.
TRACK FURTHER THROUGH THE LAIR AND OUT THE DOOR as the
Newscast drones on. Through subterranean corridors (of
course) and past dozens of projects that share some
similarity to the machine we have seen, including crude
designs that have been rejected or stripped of their good
ideas.
FAINTLY, we become aware of a clicking sound. Almost like a
stopwatch very far away, always growing louder.
The newscast has faded and another voice is getting closer
from somewhere down the hall.
Sabertooth emerges around a corner headed toward us, turning
just as we get to him.
The clicking is loud and clear now and the sound of the voice
is familiar, it is the voice of Professor Xavier.
XAIVER
(on t.v.)
...merely as a means of helping those
with these rare and wonderful gifts to
learn more about their abilities that
they may control them and use then for
the betterment of all mankind.

23.

Sabertooth enters an office and we follow him. Seated at a
desk in the center of the room is MAX LENSHERR- - age somewhere after sixty, but strong and vital for his years. Be
is more of ten called MAGNETO.
Xavier is on the television beside him and he seems to be
watching it with vague interest. He has heard it all before.
In fact, the graphic in the corner reads.
INTERVIEWER (O.S.)
But some have said you are training a
race of superhumans. indoctrinating the
genetically enhanced into some strange
cult.
MAGNETO
(talking to t.v.)
It's called the fellowship of man and
it's worse than a cult. It's a growing
concern.
The clicking is from the sound of an executive pendulum
thingy on his desk. The six steel balls that bang onto one
another from string supports in formation depending on how
many are let to fly from either end. One ball strikes one
end, one ball swings out from the other. Two balls and two
and so on.
Slight difference. The formations change with every strike,
defying physics. Oh, and there are no strings supporting the
balls, thus defying gravity.
XAVIER
(on television)
I can assure you, the only idea I am
putting into their heads is the
fellowship of man.
MAGNETO
Ah ha, you see? Xavier, you bullet-head,
you haven't changed.
INTERVIEWER
The opposing view on the topic of Mutant
registration is Senator Scott Frank
Kelly, of Florida, who claims to support
the constitutional rights of the
genetically enhanced, but whose crusade
to register mutants is gaining
popularity.

24.

Now Kelly is on the screen, a graphic reading FRIDAY. Magneto
shakes his head.
MAGNETO
And look at this one.
When Sabertooth clears his throat, the balls instantly freeze
and hover there.
The volume on the television drops, though no remote is in
sight.
He notices Sabertooth's apparent exhaustion, his torn
clothing, including the slashes in his side. His look asks
"what happened?"
SABERTOOTH
I lost him.
How?

MAGNETO

SABERTOOTH
They were there. They knew.
MAGNETO
Do they have him?
Sabertooth nods, frustrated. Magneto thinks for a moment,
sharing the frustration. He reaches over and picks up a small
vial.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
The hard way. Page one. As he turns up
the television, and again, we don't see
how, he fiddles with the vial in his
hands, thinking.
Kelly is on the screen giving good face.
KELLY
... it' s not the mutants per se that I
have a problem with.
KELLY (CONT'D)
They, like any minority, have fears and
desires like normal people. Bat, it's .
when their fears are exploited by
subversives like this Xavier character..
.And mark my words if the President isn't
strong enough to do...what needs to be
done...

25.

As the Senator continues we PULL BACK and see Magneto
watching this. He begins speaking over Kelly's diatribe.
MAGNETO
And you may mark my words, Senator Scott
Frank Kelly. All your plotting, all your
hatred. I have plans for you... I have
seen your kind before. I've seen you
come, and I will see you go.
Magneto holds up the vial with the tiny piece of shiny metal.
AS he does, we see THE RED SERIAL NUMBERS TATTOOED ON HIS
ARM.
PAN OVER TO A BULLETIN BOARD on the wall beside him.
TO a periodic table, smaller than the first.
But still with that red square and the added letter "A".
INT. LABORATORY - DAY
Logan, looking better, sitting up. Xavier sitting beside his
bed. Jean Grey at the floor, looking at his chart.
XAVIER
Adamantium... Until today it was thought
to be a myth. Impenetrable, unbendable,
resistant to the most extreme heat, cold,
pressure and stress. Virtually
indestructible. The strongest metal on
Earth.
Just then, a spoon creeps in to frame toward's Logan's mouth
with a dollop of food on the end. Logan recoils and brushes
the spoon away. The hand on the other end is covered in blue
hair. All eyes look to Beast, who stands timidly with a tray
of vegetables.
BEAST
For strength. It's good for you.
Logan takes the tray from him and feeds himself. Beast takes
a place next to Jean.
Go on.

LOGAN

XAVIER
The adamantium has somehow been grafted
to your bones. Your entire skeleton is
coated with it.
(MORE)

26.
XAVIER (CONT'D)
I am assuming your unnatural ability to
heal makes this possible. It also makes
you virtually unstoppable. Your metal
skeleton may also explain why I am having
difficulty reading your mind.
Excuse me?

LOGAN

XAVIER
Surely you didn't think you were the only
one with... talents, Mr. Logan.
He looks at Beast and Jean.
LOGAN
Well I'm sure Babe the Blue Oaf here can
make a mean strudel, what can the betty
Logan freezes as all of the vegetables on his plate levitate
and hover in the air above him.
JEAN
Make you wear your lunch.
Logan nods, conceding.
Gotcha.

LOGAN

The vegetables settle carefully back in place and he
continues eating.
XAVIER
How did the adamantium get into your
body? Was it the military?
He points to Logan's dogtags. Logan pulls away.
LOGAN
I don't know.
XAVIER
How long has it been there?
LOGAN
1 don't know.
XAVIER
How old are you?
Logan is clearly becoming agitated.

27.

LOGAN
I don' t know.
XAVIER
You mean to tell me LOGAN
I DON'T KNOW, who are you people? Where
am I? What is this place and why am I
here?
Xavier wisely decides to ease up.
XAVIER
All in time. In a matter in which you can
digest. In the meantime, we would like to
invite you to stay here as our guest. You
are free to go anywhere To leave?

LOGAN

JEAN
I wouldn't do that.
BEAST
You've suffered serious internal damage even with your ability to heal JEAN
. Why was that thing out there chasing
you?
LOGAN
Hey, you know what? I have a great idea.
I don't need any of my questions answered
and you get me some pants.
INT. HALLWAY - LATER
Beast watched Logan finish eating through a tiny window on
the door to his room. Xavier and Jean talk in a whisper, well
out of earshot.
JEAN
...that is completely unacceptable.
XAVIER
That is not who we are, Jean. If he wants
to leave, so be it. All we can do is
encourage him to stay.

28.

JEAN
We don't know who he is, what they were
doing out there. For all we know he was
working with Magneto. If that's the case
then he has already seen too much.
Logan's voice echoes from the other room, through the wall.
LOGAN (O.S.)
I haven't seen anything but the ceiling
in this place and I've never heard of
"Magneto." Don't any of you guys have
names like Bob?
The two of them look at one another, amazed that he could
have heard them from that distance through that wall.
Xavier whispers.
XAVIER
Perhaps you would like a tour of the
institute?
LOGAN (O.S.)
Delighted. Now can I please have some
pants?
Xavier looks at Jean and Beast - this time we hear his voice,
but his lips never move. He is speaking telepathically.
XAVIER (V.O)
While I entertain Mr. Logan, perhaps you
and Beast can see what you can find out.
Jean nods and leaves with Beast.
LOGAN (O.S.)
And I am a boxer guy, if anyone is
asking.
EXT. SCHOOL GROUNDS - LATER
Logan is clearly uncomfortably, antsy, ready to leave. He
looks around at what seems to be a prep school, set in a
large pre-war mansion on a large and well kept estate.
A soccer game is going on in the background.
ANGLE ON:
The sidelines of said soccer game.

29.

A young girl sits all alone at the edge of the field. Her
eyes are deep and sad and her general attitude is not much
better. She is not watching the game, however.
Her name is ROGUE, and we will meet her later. She wears an
outfit that seems to swath her entire body like a cocoon in
thick layers despite the warm weather. Her neck and even her
hands are covered. All but her face.
From wear she sits, she watches Logan and Xavier with great
interest. Finally she stands and walks toward them.
LOGAN
So all these kids are...
XAVIER
Mutants? Like you? All alike, and all
very unique. The rarest cases from all
over the globe. Ahh, Scott... Storm.
Logan looks ahead and sees Cyclops and STORM, the two that
saved him from certain mutilation in Alaska. They are both
dressed in those sweats that Scott was wearing before and
they both look as though they have just come from the gym.
Scott's visor does not hide his scrutinous assessment of
Logan. Storm is more forgiving.
STORM
He's looking well.
CYCLOPS
Did they sew it back on right?
XAVIER
I believe you have already met Scott and
Ororo.
Logan mocks deep thought. Then he points to Storm, then
Cyclops.
LOGAN
I'm gonna guess they call you.... Snow
Job and you're.... Pink eye.
They both look blankly at Xavier.
XAVIER
Logan is just catching up.
They nod and walk away, unamused.

30.

LOGAN
Bow did they find me, anyway?
XAVIER
I make it my primary interest to find the
mutants with the most extraordinary
powers. The best potential. We've been
tracking you for some time.
LOGAN
Impossible. I would have known.
Xavier taps a finger to his temple.
XAVIER
The mind leaves no tracks/ breaks no
branches.
LOGAN
Why then? What for?
XAVIER
Our primary goal here is to allow those
with more extreme mutations to learn in
an environment with some sense of
normality. A place where they will not be
treated as freaks and outcasts.
As he says this, one of the kids on the soccer field
STRETCHES some twenty feet with one leg and oversteps a
sacking. Neither Logan or Xavier sees it.
XAVIER (CONT'D)
Until recently, we were a well-kept
secret for the safety of the children as
well as the courtesy of the surrounding
residents. No one wanted this to be a
tourist stop - people coming to get a
glimpse of...
LOGAN
The Uncanny Guava-man and his sidekick
Flipper Boy?
Xavier smiles politely. He is far to wise to take offense.
XAVIER
Your humor has the ring of a defense, Mr.
Logan. I have to wonder if you have ever
been open to anything in your life.
PAUSE. Logan is serious now.

31.

LOGAN
Once or twice.
Now they head down a path along the side of the school lined
with shade trees. It is quiet here.
XAVIER
If I nay be so bold, I don't need my
abilities to tell me you're in pain. That
you are running from something - from
someone.
LOGAN
Is this where I tell you you wouldn't
like me when I am angry?
XAVIER
I would like to help you.
LOGAN
I've heard that before.
XAVIER
I am a little different from what you are
used to.
LOGAN
I have no doubt. And I appreciate what
you did for me. But I get the feeling
that the favor wasn't free and I can tell
you right now, I didn't ask, so don't ask
back.
XAVIER
We want nothing from you, Logan.
LOGAN
Sure you do. You want to know why that
thing was chasing me.
XAVIER
He is called Sabertooth.
LOGAN
Imagine that.
XAVIER
Have you seen him before.
LOGAN
Too many times.

32.

XAVIBR
And this tine he nearly had you.
LOGAN
He's nearly had me before.
XAVIER
And haven't you ever wondered why?
Logan grows grim.
LOGAN
What difference does it make. I have it
coming.
XAVIER
What does that mean?
Nothing.

LOGAN

XAVIER
What is it you have done that makes you
say that?
LOGAN
When can I leave?
XAVIER
Any time you wish.
LOGAN
Now, would be great.
XAVIER
(pointing)
The front gate is that way.
Logan walks away and out of frame. Xavier sits, watching him
go.
LONG PAUSE.
Logan comes back, fuming.
LOGAN
You got a lot of nerve, pal, picking
around my insides, spooking up my
tailpipe with your... voodoo whatever. I
didn/.t ask for your help. I got no one,
don't want no one, not gonna have no one
and was happy being no one.
(MORE)

33.
LOGAN (CONT'D)
I was two thousand miles from the heart
of nowhere and next thing I know I wake
up in the Uncle Fester school for the
creepy with a cue ball brain cropper
telling me about my pain. My pain. My
head is ay wallet, pal. Keep your hands
off.
Be walks away again, coming back faster this time.
LOGAN (CONT'D)
This is grotesque what you're doing, you
know that? You really think you're
helping these kids? There is a real world
out there filled with people just waiting
for an enemy to make a "them* for them to
"us" about. What happens when these kids
get out there? How do you prepare them
then? Tney'll all come back running to
you, man. They'll run screaming.
He is off again. Xavier has not moved this entire time. Logan
returns, walking slow, energy gone. Be is holding his side in
agony. Bis breathing is heavy.
LOGAN (CONT'D)
That thing tore up my insides.
Lunch?

XAVIER

LOGAN
Sounds good.
Xavier leads the way. Before he follows, Logan looks down the
path of trees.
LOGAN (CONT'D)
You can come out now.
And he is gone.
LONG PAUSE.
From behind one of the trees, Rogue emerges, clearly
galvanized by what Logan was saying.
INT. WHITIE HOUSE - OVAL OFFICE - DAY
Guyrich and Kelly in front of the man himself. If he is in
the chair, he must be THE PRESIDENT.
Xavier is on the television in the same interview that
Magento was watching.

34.

XAVIBR
(on television)
I can assure you, the only idea I am
putting into their heads is the
fellowship of nan.
Kelly shuts it off.
KELLY
I'm telling you, Dick, this guy is up to
no good.
PRESIDENT
We don't really know that.
GUYRICH
It's people like you that didn't know
what Hitler was really up to when he
marched into the Rhineland and built his
war machine.
The President takes pause at Guyrich's comment, deciding to
ignore it.
PRESIDENT
I'm all for some kind of investigation
here. But we KELLY
What do you think we have been doing for
the past three years. Bow much more
information do you need?
PRESIDENT
I just don't see it. This threat you keep
talking about. I mean sure, they exist,
no one is disputing that, intellectually,
I understand you, but the American people
are not going to see it like you and I
do. We're talking about one tenth of one
tenth of one tenth of the world's
population here.
GUYRICH
So you won't miss their votes.
The President cocks his head to Kelly.
PRESIDENT
Scott, you really have to get rid of this

35.

KELLY
You gotta see what these freaks can do,
Dick. This isn't bending tablespoons or
levitating a chick in a tight nightie.
These guys mean business. You gotta know
where they are.
PRESIDENT
I have a little thing in my way called
the Constitution. You might have heard of
it. It's what keeps people from calling
me "king."
GUYRICH
You know we can take this to the speaker PRESIDFKT
And what, Mr. Guyrich? And what? You want
this to be a line item on some
environmental bill, you go right ahead.
You go up against me on this and I'll see
you can't get a job as a lobbyist for the
guys who sell plastic vomit. What is
this? Who do you think you are?
GUYRICH
You're not as powerful as you think you
are, Mr. President. The day will come
when Even Kelly cannot believe his ears.
Jesus -

KELLY

PRESIDENT
You finish that sentence. Mr. Guyrich. Go
on.
But Guyrich is quiet.
PRESIDENT (CONT'D)
I thought so. Gentlemen, I am franticly
preparing myself for the largest single
summit in the history of the planet and I
haven't the time nor the inclination to
sit here and listen to two yahoos tell me
that the end of the world is coming in
the shape of some fifteen year old kid
from Iowa with bug eyes and big feet.
You've got a storm in a teacup here and I
will have not one more word said about
it.

36.

PRESIDENT (CONT'D)
And until a Mutant takes a shot at me
personally/ I swear to you, they are as
free as sweat on the equator to do as
they please. Good day.
INT. LIMOUSINE - LATER
Kelly and Guyrich climb into the lino and slump back in their
seats.
KELLY
Christ sake, what were you trying to do
to me in there?
GUYRICH
Someone needed to say something.
KELLY
It's the President of the United States.
You were threatening the President.
GUYRICH
It's not him... it's what he represents.
KELLY
Well do me a favor in the future. Save it
for the Speaker...
Where to?

GUYRICH

Kelly rubs his eyes.
Home.

KELLY

Guyrich leans forward to address the driver.
GUYRICH
Dulles Airport.
INT. CAFETERIA - LATER
The usual racket made by a hundred school kids at lunch time.
Logan can make out Cyclops, Storm, Beast and Jean among the
kids eating here.
XAVIER
I am not a naive man, Logan. I accept
that life can be cruel. But it is not as
much for their safety that we are here as
for the outside world.
(MORE)

37.
XAVIER (CONT'D)
Some of these children have potentially
dangerous abilities.
Logan is looking across the room at Jean and Cyclops, waiting
on line for food. They laugh at some joke and then kiss
tenderly. The look on his face betrays a loneliness, a
jealousy not of Cyclops, but of them both.
XAVIBR
If they were not educated as to how to
control them, they could hurt someone...
LOGAN
You don't have to tell me.
He shakes himself free of the loving couple and looks away,
finding Rogue eating alone, away from all the others. She
jreals a glance at him and hides her face.
XAVIBR
We are a minority like any other. Only in
this instance, there is a justified fear.
A rational and very real threat. I am
sure you have seen what unfocused
prejudice can do. Imagine if the enemy
were clearer.
Logan nods, his eyes betraying a lifetime of being that
enemy.
XAVIER
You should stay here with us. If only
until you completely recover. If after a
week you don't feel at home, I'll take
you back to Alaska myself.
LOGAN
He'll come here... that thing... looking
for me.
XAVIER
Sabertooth?
(smiles)
I'll protect you. As long as you're with
me, you'll be safe.
Logan laughs.
LOGAN
Hey, I'm sorry, pops. I don't mean to be
the hammer here, but look at you. You're
an old man in a wheelchair. What could
you do to that thing that I -

38.

SILENCE.
The room with all of its eating, chatting children has fallen
completely quiet.
Logan looks around the room and sees that literally every
child is frozen in time. Some with food half-chewed in their
open mouths, others with laughs frozen on their faces.
It is motionless.
Except for Storm, Cyclops, Beast and Jean and Rogue. They
turn around and look at Logan and Xavier as if this display
of mental power is nothing unusual.
Logan looks down at Xavier now, who holds a finger in the air
as if making a point. He is.
XAVIER
Never underestimate the mind for the man.
And he lowers his hand.
And the lunch resumes - the children never knowing what
happened. And for the first time, Logan is speechless.
INT. DANGER ROOM CONTROL BOOTH -DAT
A large, gym-like structure used for TRAINING.
(*Note: this is not your typical "firing range." It's a range
designed for people with mutations ranging the entire
spectrum. It is colorful, strangely shaoed, full of objects
the likes of which we've never seen.)
Outside is a CONTROL ROOM where Jean Grey sits manipulating
the various exercises of the DANGER ROOM from a control
panel.
CYCLOPS is inside, working on controlling the laser-like BEAM
that emerges from behind his visor. He fires at various ODDSHAPED OBJECTS that dart across the room.
He wears specially-made padding: training gear that resembles
well-worn versions of what we'll later come to know as their
trademark uniforms.
Logan watches Cyclops a thick PLEXIGLAS WINDOW which divides
the room from the control room.
Logan and Xavier enter, watching the exercise.

39.

LOGAN
Just a school?
XAVIER
(smiling)
With a very advanced athletic program.
The younger students call this the
"Danger Room." I thought you might like
to try it eventually. Help you build you
strength.
LOGAN
And prepare me for the day I must face a
flying shape.
Behind them, we notice Rogue in the hallway, watching.
Cyclops glances at Logan. Then, an ODDLY-SHAPED OBJECT shoots
from the back of the room right towards the front... and —
just as it almost hits Cyclops — he BLASTS IT APART with the
laser-like beam which emerges from his visor.
The debris falls through a vent on the floor.
Cyclops exits the floor and enter the control room.
LOGAN (CONT'D)
Nice... eye.
Nice hair.

CYCLOPS

Jean laughs.
CYCLOPS (CONT'D)
(re: Danger Room)
Wanna give it a shot?
XAVIER
Perhaps you should wait until you're
feeling LOGAN
I'd love to.
Logan looks at the room. Nods - piece of cake. H* ushers
Cyclops aside. Cyclops motions to the rack of UNIFORMS
hanging along the wall.
CYCLOPS
You might want to Logan shakes his head and enters the danger room.

40.

INT. DANGER ROOM
Logan stands in the center of the room, taking a look around
and getting familiar with his surroundings.
INT. DANGER ROOM CONTROL BOOTH
Cyclops and Xavier watch from behind the thick Plexiglas.
Jean hits a lever on the control panel.
The first object SHOOTS out of the wall.
INT. DANGER ROOM
Logan ducks, bending backwards like a batter from an inside
pitch.
Logan turns to the control room and smiles.
INT. DANGER ROOM CONTROL BOOTH
The shape smashes hard but harmlessly into the Plexiglas
window. no one in the booth is fazed.
Jean takes the lever up another notch. Cyclops smiles. Xavier
remains concerned.
INT. DANGER ROOM
A hole in the wall opens. Logan again hears it coming and
turns to face it.
Another object shoots out at him and he EXTENDS HIS CLAWS,
SPEARING IT.
He turns back to the control room and retracts his claws with
the object impaled on them. It falls away.
Another object fires, claws extend, slicing it in two. Then
another, then another. The first is smashed, the second is
speared. As yet another object comes at him, he throws the
one he has just spiked into the latest flying object and the
two smash in midair.
INT. HALLWAY
Rogue smiles to herself.
INT. DANGER ROOM CONTROL BOOTH
Cyclops leans into the mic that is connected to the P.A. in
the Danger room.

41.

CYCLOPS
You really might want to wear some gear.
Logan turns to face him, holding up his hand as his claws
retract, we cannot help but notice that the middle claw
lingers in a familiar sign of defiance.
Cyclops leans in and whispers to Jean. She pushes the lever a
little higher.
INT. DANGER ROOM
Logan sees this and scowls.
Two objects come at him from opposite directions. Be crosses
his arms and smashes them both.
Now an array of multi-shaped and multi-colored objects emerge
from the wall and shoot toward him. Logan jumps over one,
smashes the second and/ with a twist and a half-pike, nails
the third.
Logan's breathing is getting heavier. Not exhausted... angry.
INT. DANGER ROOM CONTROL BOOTH
Xavier is watching this with growing interest, seeing
something new in Logan's features.
Another object comes at him and he destroys it, but now with
a venom. No longer playing.
Cyclops leans forward and hits the lever, driving it to its
highest level. Jean shoots him a look.
Now, suddenly -The FLOOR FALLS OUT BELOW LOGAN... and HE DROPS THROUGH. Then
a powerful STREAM OF AIR shoots up through the opening...
and...
...Logan rises back up into the room, off balance, in the
continuous flood of air. He ducks and rolls, swinging wildly
as he tries to maintain a kind of equilibrium in the air —
more fireballs shoot toward him — He deflects one, but the
other ignites his clothes.
INT. DANGER ROOM CONTROL BOOTH
Cyclops smiles. Hot shot ain't so hot after all.
But something is wrong — Jean senses it — she leans closer to
the Piexiglas, concerned —

42.

Logan starts to breathe heavily as he swings wildly, out of
control in frustration. The hair on his body stands on end.
JEAN
Professor...
My God...

XAVIER

Logan spins madly, and SUDDENLY EXPLODES INTO:
A BERSERKER RAGE.
This is an absolutely PRIMAL RAMPAGE — it is UTTERLY FERAL BLIND FURY — unlike anything «e have ever seen in its
INARTICULATE VIOLENCE.
Logan SLASHES AT EVERYTHING IN SIGHT - cutting his own
clothing - then himself.
INT. HALLWAY
Rogue reacts, frightened.
INT. DANGER ROOM CONTROL BOOTH
Xavier, horrified, yanks the lever down — OFF. He hits two ~"
more buttons.
The floor closes. Extinguishers from the ceiling shower down
and extinguishes Logan's burning clothes.
Logan hits the floor. But he's still moving. Xavier shoots an
adnonishing look at Cyclops.
INT. DANGER ROOM
Logan furiously lunges around the room.
His claws rake along the padded wall, shredding it.
INT. DANGER ROOM CONTROL BOOTH
JEAN
You'd better bring him down.
Now Xavier focuses his sights on Logan and USING TELEPATHY,
XAVIER, literally, TRIES TO SHOT LOGAN DOWN.
XAVIER
I..... can't.

43.

Logan spins to glare at Cyclops ~ who is stunned by the wild
display ~ and Logan's blind rage is suddenly transferred to
Cyclops. HE STARTS TOWARD HIM, heading right for the
Plexiglas. Cyclops backs up, his fighting visor glowing red.
Logan lunges with his claws, driving them through the
Plexiglas, inches from Cyclops's face.
Then it stops... Only the sound of Logan's intense breathing
as it wanes.
Logan yanks back his claws and they retract. He stands in the
middle of the Danger room, still trying to control himself.
Jean dares to walk in there with him. Cyclops goes to stop
her, but Xavier halts him with his hand.
Logan spins around and looks at Jean as she crosses th« room
to him. He crouches as though preparing for an attack - his
animal instinct taking over for the moment.
Slowly, his claws extend from his free hand. The others still
remain locked in the glass, pointed at Cyclops.
JEAN.

CYCLOPS

Jean never takes her eyes off of Logan.
JEAN
I'm alright.
LOGAN
This is not where I am supposed to be.
JEAN
This is where you belong.
LOGAN
She said the same thing to me...
Who?

JEAN

She is getting closer now.
LOGAN
It doesn't matter... She's gone - Get
away from me.
He raises his claws to protect himself.

44.

JEAN
Hurting me will only make it worse,
Logan.
Logan struggles, muscles straining as though unable to move
of his own free will.
Now Jean is within reach, the claws mere inches from her
throat. She moves toward them, closer... closer... until...
They retract, slowly, reluctantly, easing back into his body.
Resigning.
Cyclops watches this with obvious concern and mixed emotion.
Then she touches his hand and he crumbles.
Jean catches him and helps his exhausted body to the floor.
LOGAN
You should have left me. I could have
died then.
INT. HALLWAY
Rogue stands hidden in the shadows, having seen the whole
exchange. Moved and torn as to what to do, she hurries away.
EXT. SKY - EVENING
A Helicopter streaks across the sky.
INT. HELICOPTER
Kelly sleeps fitfully in the large seat. A bump of turbulence
He wakes suddenly and looks out the window, seeing the ocean
Kelly looks out the window again and sees water. They are
flying low.
He looks at Guyrich who sleeps as well. He wakes him.
KELLY
Where the hell are we?
Guyrich looks out the window and looks at Kelly pazzled. He
stands and goes to the door to the cabin of the helicopter.
Pilot?
No answer.

GUYRICH

45.

GUYRICH (CONT'D)
Pilot, what is this? PILOT?
Kelly looks out the window now and sees the helicopter is
closing in on an island- where is anyone's guess. What is
known is that the place is no pleasure resort.
It is in fact some sort of refurbished island fortress,
complete with turrets, built right into the side of the
cliffs.
EXT. UUTOIMG SIGHT
A clearing in the middle or a ring of trees at the base of a
rocky rise. The helicopter touches down.
THE PILOT, wrapped from head to toe in a flight suit and
helmet, gets out and opens the side door, exposing Kelly and
Guy rich to the intense wind of the rotors. They cover their
eyes, cowering.
KELLY'S P.O.V.
Two figures come out of a hole in the mountain. One seems extremely larger than the other.
Guyrich and Kelly step out. As they get closer he can make
out Magneto and Sabertooth.
KELLY
Dear God... Dear... God.
The Pilot removes his helmet to REVEAL:
Toad, smiling.
KELLY (CONT'D)
What the hell is this?
Kelly is utterly confused. As Magneto nears, Guyrich steps
forward to greet him, putting his arms around Magneto's neck
and kissing him deeply. Then Magneto looks deep and loving
into Guyrich's eyes.
MAGNETO
It's always your type that has something
to hide.
And with that GUYRICH MORPHS into a beautiful woman who will
heretofore be known as Mystique. Her mutant power requires no
explanation.

46.

Kelly, of course, is shocked. Mystique shows a little hip,
raising the waistline of her outfit mockingly, as the last of
what we thought was Guyrich slips underneath.
KELLY
You... wha... who are you... Where is
Guyrich?
MAGNETO
He's been dead for some time, Senator.
Care to know how long? Or would you
rather not think about it.
Makes your skin crawl, doesn't it? Magneto shakes with a mock
case of the willies.
KELLY
You bastards.. Who are you?
MAGNETO
Who we are is not nearly as important as
what we are. Say, now that is a lovely
soundbite. Use it as your own. It'll come
in handy.
Toad and Blob grab the Senator as he runs back for the
Helicopter in vain.
KELLY
What do you want?
MAGNETO
What we want is not nearly as important
as who we want. Ooo, I love this. I could
write a book of these.
KELLY
Whatever you do to me... no matter what You'll make me right. Every word I have
spoken will be confirmed.
MAGNETO
Gosh, I hope so.
As Kelly struggles against all hope.
KELLY
People like you are reason people like me
exist.
And with that, Mystique walks up.

47.

MYSTIQUE
And people like you are the reason I was
afraid to go to school.
WHACK - she strikes Kelly with enough force to:
BLACK
INT. MACHINE - NIGHT
Kelly comes to.
Magneto walks past him, holding the vial we have seen him
with before. The vial with a tiny piece of Adamantium.
PULL OUT TO REVEAL:
Kelly is strapped to a metal chair, bound impossibly tight.
He watches as Magneto "levitates* the metal sliver and places
it inside a tube at the bottom of a large spire in the center
of the room some thirty feet high with a misshapen glass dome
at the top.
He walks toward the opposite side of the room and watches as
the sliver of metal floats to the top of the device, through
the shaft and into the glass dome above.
Inside the dome is a metal structure resembling the model of
an atom. It expands as it receives the sliver.
Magneto raises his arms, mostly for effect - having fun being
the conductor of his grandest experiment.
Kelly's eyes grew wide with fear as the me-cal begins to
glow. Dull at first... then brightly... too brightly.
The dome vanishes in a light so white, it defies description.
A light that seems to ooze rather than radiate. A light that
fills the room as it expands outward and engulfs everything
in sight.
It is liquid light. Creeping and unstoppable.
Kelly clenches his teeth as it washes over him. Magneto
raises his arms and revels in its overtaking him.
From outside the room, Toad and Sabertooth watch through the
window, it comes through, first casting its shadows darkly
against the wall, then erasing them as it swallows them - as
though they were never there.

48.

INT. HALLWAY
From under a door, the light leaks in, literally like water
in a sinking ship, filling the room.
All through the lair, airvents, keyholes, drainpipes and the
like, the liquid light fills the lair to the gills.
EXT. MAGNETO'S LAIR - MIGHT
THROUGH THE TURRET ATOP THE LAIR, the light beams up into the
night sky, shining like a beacon for miles.
Then the white light obscures all.
INT. MACHINE
Kelly grits his teeth, barely visible in the whiteness.
Then it is gone. He hangs his head in exhaustion, a pink glow
to his skin, but otherwise seemingly untouched.
INT. MANSION - NIGHT
Rogue. The waif is h young thing who hides so well in the
shadows seems more comfortable to be moving through the
mansion at night.
She passes through halls and rooms not making a sound in her
strangely-swathed bodysuit.
INT. BEDROOM
She creaks a door open slowly, letting a shaft of dim light
slice the darkness.
She walks in to a figure laying in bed and stands over him.
Over Logan.
He lays under a single sheet, sweating, his eyes moving
quickly this way and that in R.E.M. His hands twitch.
Rogue leans in closer, as though trying to see his thoughts.
PUSH IN ON LOGAN'S EYES AS THEY MOVE UNDER THE LIDS.
FLASH - DREAM SEQUENCE
INT. LABORATORY
Like none we have seen thus far. In fact, judging by most of
the instruments here, we are looking at a laboratory some
fifty years old.

49.

Logan looks down and we can see his body, naked, strapped to
a tab.
A hand puts a mask over his mouth and BLACK
For a moment...
He awakens,
STILL LOGAN'S P.O.V. He struggles weakly with restraints as doctors in lab coats
and thick, red rubber gloves stand over hia taking notes,
paying very little attention to him at all.
He looks to his right and sees some sort of device -A LONG
THICK CYLINDRICAL DEVICE that resembles some of the parts of
the machines we saw in Magneto's lair.
On the other side of the room is a huge vat filled with some
kind of molten metal. At the base of the vat is a small fork
with a piece of filament in it that seems to be the source of
heat for melting the metal in the vat.
AGAIN THE MASK PUTS HIM AND
Awake again, but this time sinking into water - restrained
completely now.
Logan looks down and gets only a glance of his body, seeing
that he is a series of incisions from head to toe - literally
split open - the flesh held back with hundreds ol clamps.
HE SINKS INTO THE STRANGE LIQUID - LIKE WATER, BUT THICK AND
VISCOUS.
And the sound of a DROWNING SCREAM AND THE METAL IS POURED IN AFTER HIM.
THE SOUND OF MOLTEN METAL HITTING LIQUID IS UNNERVING. Mixed
with screams, it is unbearable.
INT. BEDROOM
SCREAMING
Logan's. Screaming as he comes to.
Logan's eyes FLASH OPEN. He looks up and sees a figure
looming over him. In a flash he reacts.

50.

THUD. Nothing more. Then Silence.
The door bursts open and Beast stands in the doorway,
shocked. Frozen. Cyclops and Jean are next and Finally Xavier
and Storm. They can only stare.
Logan sits upright in bed, CLAWS EXTENDED, INTO ROGUE'S
CHEST. She is literally frozen on the end of his arm.
Finally, Cyclops breaks the silence and moves to grab her.
XAVIER
DON'T TOUCH HER.
Cyclops freezes. Logan finally pulls the claws free and
retracts them. Rogue staggers, she pitches forward and
touches his face gently with her hands, as though he would
like to be the last thing she sees on this Earth.
Logan and Rogue, locked in a violent and fatal moment of
tenderness, sharing a look of loneliness that only they can
understand.
But Suddenly, Logan seems to change. He is in pain.
What is...

LOGAN

And Before he can for another word, he begins to tremble,
then he starts to howl in pain.
Rogue SNAPS BACK, mouth open in a gaping, silent scream. What
sound cozies out does not match the expression at all. Merely
a gasp, like steam escaping. Through the huge slash in her
clothes, we see the wound on her chest slowly vanish.
Before long, she transforms back into a healthy young girl
with no sign of injury.
Then, her breathing starts to accelerate, much in the way
Logan's did - too much like Logan's did. It is as if she has
taken on his trait of berserker rage. Soon she is smashing
things all around her. One hand rakes the wallpaper like
claws.
Finally, she gets a hold of herself, becoming the introverted
Rogue we all know so well.
Then she stands slowly, looks at the others who all look at
her in shock and surprise.
And she runs from the room.

51.

XAVIEP
Let her go.
And all eyes turn to Logan, who sits with his head in his
hands.
ZHT. CELL - LATEX
Kelly comes to with a start, his suit is rumpled and dirty,
showing signs that time has passed.
KELLY'S P.O.V.
A television outside the cell is on to keep him occupied.
News coverage of the Ellis island summit.
He looks around to see he is in cell with no door, simply
bars that jut out of the stone floor and ceiling.
Only a sink a toilet and a stainless steel mirror are here as
comforts. Not even a bed.
Magneto is in the cell with him.
Just beyond the bars, he sees Sabertooth playing chess at a
small table. Kelly cannot believe the sight of the latter,
having never seen such an extreme mutation.
The pieces on the chess board are metal, and some invisible
force moves the pieces playing against Sabertooth. Certainly
this Magneto.
It is as though they do not notice him. Until he grabs his
belly and doubles over, groaning in pain. Magneto looks at
his watch.
MAGNETO
And how are we feeling, Senator?
Advanced, I hope.
KELLY
What did you do to me..? OH GOD.
As Magneto studies his painful reaction.
MAGNETO
Are you a "God-fearing man" Senator?
Kelly's reaction tells him he is certainly afraid of
something right now.

52.

MAGNETO (CONT'D)
I have always loved that term. As if
there were something to fear.
Kelly moans in crippling pain.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
Interesting fellow, this God. The power
to drift a continent a few inches... drop
whole canyons a foot or two. Impressive,
wouldn't you say?
Magneto moves a pawn.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
But do you think that God Himself is ever
going to actually step in and do
something really, really scary? He's not,
Senator. You know why?
The Senator just glares. Magneto bears in:
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
He works too slowly.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
Man, however, seem to have the ability to
make leaps and bounds in his apparent
absence. Punching holes in the ozone
melting the ice caps, and in all other
ways making the Earth a better place...
But for whom? For you, Senator? Not
likely. At least... not until now.
Kelly jolts from a new pain just coming in.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
But what if you could change - adapt to
your new environment. '
KELLY
What are you—?
MAGNETO
What if you could breath pure carbon
monoxide, Senator? The kind your fellow
man is pumping straight into the
atmosphere as we speak? Fly above the
water that might one day cover the face
of the Earth, or swim faster than any
fish in the sea. What if your bones could
heal — quickly — immediately? What if you
could walk through walls?

53.

MAGNETO (CONT'D)
If you could move things with your mind?
If you could read minds? WOULD YOUR
CONSIDER YOURSELF A FREAK OF NATURE,
SENATOR?
(then)
Or would you just consider yourself
prepared... for the future?
Kelly winces from some terrible agony.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
Don't fear God, Senator. And certainly most certainly...don't fear me.
(smiles)
I'm here to help you. You...the man who
represents everything I hate about the
Homo Sapien. Because I'm going to turn
you - and leaders like you - into us.
Believe it or not, you are a leader,
Senator Kelly. You set an example. For
others. And if more of you were like more
of, well, us... the world would be on the
way to becoming a much, much better
place.
A beat.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
Welcome to the future, brother.
And Kelly SCREAMS IN HORRIBLE PAIN.
The bars of the cell suddenly bend an make room for Magneto
to exit. Then they bend closed behind him.
INT. XAVIER'S OFFICE
Logan sits in sweats now, much like the ones Cyclops and the
rest wear after the danger room. He hangs his head sullenly
as Xavier speaks.
XAVIER
Rogue came to us a few years ago. She was
formerly in the care of a mutant named
Max Lensherr. Have you ever heard of him?
No.

LOGAN

XAVIER
He's also known as Magneto?

54.

No.

LOGAN

XAVIER
He is an old friend/ an old adversary. Be
heads a more radical cell of mutants bent
on domination rather than cohabitation. I
am fairly certain it is he who sent
Sabertooth to find you. For what I do not
know.
Logan shrugs.
XAVIER (CONT'D)
Rogue was in love with him. But she was
outcast. Unable to serve him as he saw
fit. That is to say, she had a
conscience.
LOGAN
What happened to me in there?
XAVIER
Rogue's ability as a mutant is simply put
the power to take the abilities of other
mutants. Had she touched you much longer,
you would have been drained completely,
possibly killed. Her first, encounter
with this manifested itself during her
first kiss. The boy in question, not a
mutant, never recovered. Until tonight,
none of the others knew, except that they
were not to touch her.
LOGAN
I am sure a man of your educatio.. has
heard of a girl named Pandora.
XAVIER
You must understand, I have spent the
better part of my life teaching these
people to embrace what they have as a
gift rather than hide it like an
affliction. For some it has become their
identity. You mock the names these people
choose, but they wear them as badges of
pride in who they are against nearly
universal prejudice. And then, suddenly
in their midst is one of their own who
can t'ake all that away from them. Leave
them with nothing. She would have been an
outcast amongst the outcasts.

55.

LOGAN
So what now? You're blaming me for XAVIER
I think I will, yes. I think I will hold
you responsible enough to keep you here.
I'll make you a deal. You work with me
for an hour a day. We will try our best
to look into your past and find out who
you are, where you came from - if you let
me, I know I can.
LOGAN
I told you I don't want your help XAVIER
This is not for you, you idiot. It is for
Rogue. You are the first living being she
has touched in fifteen years. If that is
not the basis for some attachment, I
don't know what is.
LOGAN
Sonofabitch.
XAVIER
A stranger looking in might say you had
it backwards.
INT. HALLWAY - LATER
Logan walks out into the hall and nearly runs into Rogue.
She looks at him shyly and steps back. She is wrapped freshly
in a thick swath of clothing from head to toe. Only her face
is visible.
It is a painfully awkward moment. Then:
LOGAN
I uhhh. I don't know how old I am. I know
I've been through several wars, should
have died in all of them. The first time
I saw a gray hair I... I cried because it
was the first sign of age I had seen in
decades. It's the uncertainty that
frightens me. Wondering if some day - any
day - will be my last.
She nods, understanding.

56.

LOGAN (CONT'D)
And uhhh... when you... when you touched
me tonight.
And a tear springs from Rogue's eye.
LOGAN (CONT'D)
When you touched me. I felt for one brief
second... the hand of death. And I know
it's out there now... I know it can
happen to me.
She is sobbing silently now, stepping a little further back.
LOGAN (CONT'D)
And I just wanted to thank you.
And she looks up at him, shocked. Unable to control herself,
she wraps her arms around him, careful not to let her face
touch him. Tears flow freely down her cheeks.
Finally, Logan's hands come up and slowly wrap around her.
Leave them like this. They deserve it.
INT. MAGNETO'S LAIR
Kelly is hunched over his toilet, heaving.
On the television is an interview with Xavier that we have
seen before. The same words about fellowship of man, etc.
Kelly slumps to the floor, catching a glimpse of himself in
the stainless steel base of the sink in the corner. And so do
we.
His skin seems to be turning white. Worse yet... not white.
Veins are visible all over his face and he has thinned
considerably.
A lock of hair is in his face and when he goes to brush it
aside, it simply falls out in his hand, leaving a patch of
skin on the front of his scalp matching perfectly the skin on
his face.
AND HE SCREAMS.
He seems to be excreting some sort of clear fluid and his
breathing is starting to take on a gurgle that is all too
unpleasant. He is in obvious pain.

57.

He walks toward the cell and tries to look down the hall,
pressing his face to the bars at the spot Magneto had bent
them.
It is only then that he hears a slight crack and his head
squeezes between the bars like a soft-shelled egg. He gasps
in pain, choking on the clear mucous.
After adjusting to the shock of what has happened, Kelly gets
an idea. Be turns his shoulder toward the bars and begins to
push. His feet slip in the floor and his fingers stretch and
crack inside, then his ribs begin to pop one by one with the
brittleness of undercooked spaghetti. It is agonizing, but
Kelly finally manages to pull his horribly-altering body
through the bars.
Once through he looks around the room and finally sees down
the hall where we first went on our way to meet Magneto. We
even hear the familiar clicking of the balls on his desk.
Kelly, with only that way to go, does so, passing once again
the odd assortment of machines, very reminiscent of the one
in Logan's dream.
The clicking gets louder and louder the closer he gets to
what wa know to be Magneto's office.
Finally he arrives, with no recourse but to pass the open
door.
INT. MAGNETO'S OFFICE
The balls clicking in their oddly familiar, but totally
unnatural state, banging in to one another in an array of
combinations.
Suddenly, they fall, hitting the desk and rolling every which
way.
Magneto looks at the gelatinous creature standing in the door
who looks back at him. It is hard to tell which one is more
surprised.
He smiles, unable to hide his pride at his creation.
MAGNETO
Magnificent.
Then Kelly bolts, running so fast, his slick-skinned feet
slip out of his shoes.
Magneto is up and after him, but not before hitting a red
alarm button just beside his desk.

58.

INT. HALLWAYS - VARIOUS
Magneto cannot see Kelly, but the sloppy trail of slime he is
leaving makes him easy to chase.
He finds a pair of socks left much like the shoes.
Sabertooth overtakes him in the hallway, following the same
trail.
Alive.

MAGNETO

SABERTOOTH
I'll find him.
ALIVE. -

MAGNETO

And Sabertooth is off with his own unnatural speed.
INT. HALLWAY - ELSEWHERE
Toad, Blob ar.£ Pyro split up, looking this way and that.
Toad heads down a particularly dark hallway and slows down,
listening. All he hears is the dripping of water in the
Subterranean corridor.
He walks past a drain pipe that leads to who knows where, so
small - perhaps ten inches in diameter, he does not think to
notice it.
Once he is safely by, a large bubble of clear goo emerges
from the drain, rolling over to reveal it is Kelly's head,
looking both ways before emerging further.
He drags himself out, face contorted in a silent scream of
agony.
He comes up onto his "feet" and looks at his fingers, now
more like tentacles reaching up to his elbow. He is so busy
seeing if the coast is clear, he does not hear blob coming up
behind him.
Blob throws a meat-fisted punch which tears Kelly's suit and
rams right through back and out his chest, doing almost
nothing otherwise.
Kelly goes to grab Blob's fist and his rope-fingers wrap
around the giant's flesh and instantly bring scarlet, burn
like welts to him. Much like the tendrils of a jellyfish.

59.

Blob screams in agony, pulling back and wrapping one hand
around the other, now burning his good hand all over the
palm. More screaming, and the sounds of Toad coming back.
Kelly runs past a helpless Blob.
INT. HALLWAY - ELSEWHERE
Kelly is now headed down a large, open corridor ouch like a
traffic tunnel. At the end is moonlight, and Kelly gives it
whatever he has to get there.
But Sabertooth is behind him.
Kelly hears the pounding feet and screams in terror without
even looking back to see what it might be. Sabertooth
overtakes him despite his speed and lunges, diving for the
wretched creature.
He lands face down on the floor, just as he catches Kelly
firmly by the ankle with both hands. Got him.
But no. Kelly's slick and jelly-like leg simply quirts out of
his grasp and he keeps going.
EXT. MAGNETO'S LAIR - CLIFFS
Kelly comes to the edge of a sheer cliff. End of the road.
Several hundred feet straight down and jagged rocks below.
He turns hearing the underbrush crashing behind him and sees
Sabertooth, Pyro and Toad all closing in on him.
Kelly thinks for moment, panicked and desperate.
Then he resigns, holding his tentacles out like the arms they
used to be as if to say "I give up..."
And he falls backward. Sabertooth makes a desperate lunge and
almost falls after him. Only Pyro and Toad are there to catch
him.
They all watch as Kelly falls silently toward the rocks
below, looking up at them with almost a smile.
SPLATCH
His "body" hits the rocks and tquirts out like toothpaste
from the tube through the neck of his suit, leaving it as the
only reminder that he was ever there.
A moment later, the waves come and takes care of that.

60.

INT. MAGNETO'S OFFICE
Now he sits at his desk, chin in his hand, the metal balls
flying in front of him as they would a juggler in ever •\_J
complicated patterns.
When Sabertooth walks in, the hover in front of him in the
form of a question mark.
He's dead.

SABERTOOTH

Frustrated for only a moment, Magneto adjusts.
MAGNETO
It changes nothing. We'll simply make our
debut without him.
,
Then Magneto smiles.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
It was magnificent, was it not?
IHT. REC ROOM
Storm, and Beast along with several of the students, all sit
watching television, but not really paying attention. It is
the quiet, somber aftermath of what they have just witnessed.
On the television, we see SEVERAL NEWS HELICOPTERS circling a
platform built against the backdrop of the main entrance to
Ellis Island. We see massive security measures, the likes of
which have never been attempted, being prepared.
NEWSCASTER
Is there such a thing as too much
security? A possible complication adding
to the Ellis Island Anniversary of the
U.N. assembly is the sheer number of
security personnel. The Secret Service's
Request has been denied unanimously by
other nations of the world to allow them
to coordinate on their own. Special U.N.
council coordinators have thus been
brought in to help aid in the
communication of security units speaking
in nearly two dozen different languages,
each their to protect tneir own. Here now
with the rest of the story is Beast is the first to see Rogue enter the room and he
immediately stands. Then Storm sees her, she smiles.

61.

But the students... There is an unspoken moment of tension in
the room. Some of them clearly look, at her as if to say she
is not wanted. Whispers to one another and then a LAUGH.
Rogue tries to say something, but cannot. The look on their
faces in all its ambiguity is too much for her. She turns and
runs from the room.
STORM
Rogue - wait But Beast stops her.
EXT. MANSION - DAY
Rogue runs unhindered through the gates at the edge of the
estate.
ANGLE ON:
Across the road. The leaves on the trees seem to move. Then
one of the trees itself.
Then, his camouflage fading, TOAD comes down from the
treetops, heading in Rogue's direction.
IMT. DANGER ROOM - DAY
Logan in a suit not unlike the ones we saw Cyclops and Storm
in at the beginning. It is skintight and seems to cover him
well.
Jean Grey is helping him adjust it to fit him. At the same
time, she is attaching remote electrodes to the suit around
his heart, temples, etc.
Xavier watches from the booth. He is adjusting the dials on a
wireless EKG that is monitoring all of Logan's functions.
Cyclops is at the controls, ready.
JEAN
This will give you a little more
protection than the last time. Obviously,
we would make one more suited for your
abilities.
SHOOK. Logan's hands come up, claws having extended through
the special gloves, tearing nasty holes in them.
LOGAN
As you were saying...

62.

Jean smiles.
JEAN
Put those away.
Xavier's voice comes in over a loudspeaker.
XAVIBR
We're going to try and repeat yesterday's
performance. This time, however, I want
you to try and concentrate for as long as
is possible as to what thought, memories,
notions - no matter how fleeting - enter
into your mind. Do you understand?
LOGAN
What if they're naughty?
He is looking at Jean when she says this. She smiles, shaking
her head. Cyclops is clearly not happy about it.
Storm and Beast enter the booth behind them in a panic. We
hear only muffled conversation through the mic, then Xavier,
loud and clear.
WHAT?!

XAVIER

Jean and Logan look at one another, then dash into the booth.
INT. BOOTH
JEAN
What is it?
STORM
Rogue is gone. Some of the students...
reacted.
XAVIER
I knew this would happen.
JEAN
How in the world could you have let her
go?
BEAST
It seemed best if we just LOGAN
Let her figure out your problems for you?

63.

CYCLOPS
Hey, tough guy, stay out of it, okay?
You've got one day in this place.
In the booth, Xavier shuts his eyes, concentrating.
LOGAN
Enough to see you hypocrites have your
own standards just like the rest of them.
BEAST
I hardly think that's fair.
LOGAN
Just look at yourself, Boo-Berry, and
tell me what's fair.
Cyclops lunges for Logan. CLAWS EXTEND QUICKLY, ready to
kill. Beast holds Cyclops back and shakes him just as his
eyes are heating up.
JEAN
ENOUGH. None of this matters, what is
important is finding Rogue and bringing
her back before something happens to her.
XAVIER
I found her.
INT. WESTCHESTER MILL - DAT
A mother and child wander in a typical shopping daze.
PULL OUT TO REVEAL
A particularly crowded day at the mall as Rogue comes up the
escalator, wandering through them all.
She walks under a high domed glass ceiling, revealing bright
light outside.
She walks over to a Victoria's Secret store and looks up at
the mannequins in the windows who wear almost nothing at all.
Quite a contrast from her own, stifling garb. Shs touches the
glass as though trying to reach them, then she moves on.
ROGUE'S P.O.V.
She looks all around the mall at the many oblivious people
here. Children playing tag on one side. A young couple
holding hands.
Human contact all around.

64.

She walks past a small child, her hand nearly brushing the
girl's hair. She passes an elderly couple seated on a bench,
daring to come within inches, dying for the slightest touch.
FINALLY:

.

She sees a young man looking in the front window of SHARPER
IMAGE STORE. She walks over and stands behind him, slowly
raising her hand to touch him.
Her fingers come painfully close, getting closer.
ROGUE.

STORM (O.S.)

Rogue turns and sees:
Storm, coming to her though the crowd. A SHIFT IN THE CROWD
and Storm loses sight of her.
INT. MALL - ELSEWHERE
Rogue- runs up the escalator and runs right into Storm,
nearly touching her.
STORM
You don't have to run.
INT. POOD COURT - LATER
Rogue and Storm have a cup of coffee by a glass railing that
looks down on the rest of the mall.
ROGUE
I fell off the wagon. Hard. I feel like
if I don't touch another human being...
She starts to cry now.
It's okay.

STORM

ROGUE
I don't want to live-like this.
STORM
All of us have those days.
ROGUE
But you can touch. You're not alone. No
one is alone like I am.

65.

STORM
That may be so, but you were put here for
a reason.
ROGUE
I can see that look.
STORM
What look is that?
ROGUE
That look people get when they want to
touch you - to make you feel better. I
see that look all the time. It ends with
this expression I am sure lepers know
pretty well.
Just then, Rogue looks down and sees Cyclops on the lower
level, obviously searching for her.
STORM
I'll touch you.
Rogue's attention snaps back to Storm.
What?

ROGUE

STORM
I said I'll touch you. Is that what you
want? Here.
She reaches for Rogue, who recoils.
Don't.

ROGUE

STORM
I am serious. Come on.
ROGUE
Get away. Please. I didn't mean it.
STORM
Then you touch me.
No.

ROGUE

STORM
Then quit your crying. Stop complaining
about how hard it is to be you. You want
to die, go and kill yourself.
(MORE)

66.
STORM (CONT'D)
Otherwise, stop being such a martyr. Get
over yourself.
Rogue looks at Storm in shock. But not so much as to notice
something over her shoulder. A movement on the other side of
the mall.
ROGUE'S P.O.V.
Storm seems to be in two places at once, because now she is
all the way on the other side in front of a large planter,
watching Rogue talk with... well... Storm.
The tree behind her turns an autuany red and the leaves fall
off.
AS A MASSIVE FIGURE MOVES INTO FRAME BEHIND HER.
INT. MALL - LONER LEVEL
Cyclops looks up and sees Rogue sitting with Storm, looking
over at something.
He turns in time to see that The other Storm is being CHOKED
BY SABERTOOTH, her feet not touching the ground.
He tries to get a shot with his visor, but too many people
are in his way.
INT. MALL - UPPER LEVEL
Sabertooth smiles as Storm struggles to turn. He whispers in
her ear.
,
SABERTOOTH
Scream for me.
INT. DANGER ROOM - CONTROL BOOTH
Back at the mansion, Xavier is watching Logan go through a
light routine in the Danger Room with Beast at the controls.
Suddenly, Xavier touches his throat, then raises a shaking
hand to his head.
Dear God.

XAVIER

BEAST
What is it?
XAVIER
Stay here with Logan. Whatever happens,
do hot leave the school.

67.

And he is gone.
INT. MALL - LOWER LEVER
Cyclops has a clear shot now. His eyes start to glow
brightly.
Suddenly, a familiar movement on the pedestal behind him.
Toad has been camouflaged the entire time. He comes down and
licks HIS LIZARD-LIKE TONGUE, snatching the visor from
Cyclops' face.
MAYHEM
Light like we have never seen comes blasting out of Cyclops'
eyes without any sort of control, as if a fire hydrant had
been ripped from the ground.
His head comes back and the light blows the whole of the
glass ceiling to smithereens, bringing it down on panicking
shoppers who scatter.
Toad leaps to the second level and then again out of sight.
MALL - UPPER LEVEL
Sabertcoth reacts, surprised by the sudden shift. This gives
Storm one last chance to breathe.
We notice now that something is happening to her body.
INT. MALL - LOWER LEVER
Cyclops runs helpless, trying to cover his eyes. Small
streams of light shoot through his fingers, sprinkling damage
wherever they go.
He heads right for a woman and he can hear her screaming,
frozen in his path.
CYCLOPS
GET OUT OF THE WAY. GET OUT OF THE WAY.
He opens his eyes instinctively to see where he is going. She
ducks in time to miss the BLAST OF PURE ENERGY SHOOTING FROM
HIS FACE.
FOLLOW THE BEAM TO:
A CRYSTAL STORE AT THE END OF THE MALL

68.

Through the window and into a chandelier, refracting at the
speed of light through nearly every piece of glass in the
place.
The owner comes running out as:
AN EXPLOSION OF GLASS FOLLOWS HIM.
IHT. HALL - UPPER LEVEL - POOD COURT
Rogue turns to look at the Storm she is sitting with who is
laughing as she shrugs.
"STORM"
We missed you, babe.
INSTANTLY, ROGUE LASHES OUT, GRABBING HER by the face.
"Storm" struggles at first, then begins to tremble much in
the way Logan did. Then worse. She turns into Mystique, her
true identity, as Rogue turns into Mystique.
Now there are two. They begin to struggle violently. One to
be free, the other to hold on.
They fall out of frame - after a moment one rises up. Which
Mystique it is, we cannot tell.
She leaves the other in a heap on the floor.
INT. MALL - UPPER LEVEL
Storm, nearly lifeless now, struggles with what little she
has to get free of Sabertooth. He relishes a kill at last.
Storm's eyes open wide as her body convulses.
BOOM
A huge bolt of lightning shoots from her body into
Sabertooth,'s chest, knocking him back in shock. Storm falls
to the ground, gasping.
ELSEWHERE
Mystique runs toward the exit. She looks back and sees The
other Mystique laying on the floor. Dead?
As she turns to leave she runs right into TOAD, wearing
Cyclops' visor.
She looks at him curiously, swiping the visor off of him like
a scolding mother.

69.

TOAD
We're all set. Xavier is on his way. Get
to the mansion.
He leaps away, leaving Mystique to transform back into Rogue,
nar real identity. Rogue looks back to the spot where the
real Mystique was lying and sees that she is gone.
EXT. STREETS
Xavier drives as fast as he can toward the mall.
INT. MALL - LOWER LEVER
Cyclops stumbles blind and helpless, covering his eyes. A
hand comes into frame, tapping him with his visor.
He takes it and puts it on. Looking up to see a guiltstricken Rogue.
Sprinklers fire and shower down all over the mall to the
sound of many alarms.
EXT. MALL - DAY
Xavier fights the rush of traffic - people fleeing madly from
the mall.
As he pulls up to the front doors, he sees Cyclops emerging,
carrying Storm's unconscious body. They are followed by
Rogue.
ROGUE
It's a trick. To lure you away. They are
headed to the mansion.
They jump in the car and peel out back toward home.
INT. MANSION - LOGAN'S ROOM
Logan has just finished his exercise in the danger room. He
looks a bit worn, showing signs of pain and stiffness, not
quite ready for the strain he has put on himself. His face is
slicked with s^eat and he wrestles with how to get this
uniform off.
He hears the slightest noise and turns.
Rogue is standing in the doorway, looking at him. He is
speechless at first. Then:
LOGAN
Listen, I feel a little responsible -

70.

Rogue shakes her head, smiling.
LOGAN (CONT'D)
I heard about what happened. Are you
okay?
She shrugs indifferently.
E.C.U. on Logan's nose. His nostrils flare.... sensing...
Logan squints the tiniest bit. We know he knows something is
wrong, but he is hiding it. Be picks up a towel and wipes the
sweat off his face.
LOGAN (CONT'D)
So listen, I was thinking today I would
go out... have a drink. I thought maybe
you would come with me.
Rogue nods and smiles.
LOGAN (CONT'D)
Maybe you could finish telling me that
story you were telling me last night.
Rogue pauses. Confused.
LOGAN (CONT'D)
You know... Come on... Don't make me say
it.
But Rogue is stumped... not knowing what to say.
LOGAN (CONT'D)
Whatever you say about them bexng the
same, no two women smell alike.
SHOOK. The Claws are out. LOGAN LUNGES, BUT ROGUE DIVES TO
THE SIDE AND OUT INTO THE HALL. Logan is after her, his claws
tearing through the walls as he chases her.
LOGAN (CONT'D)
WHERE IS SHE?
INT. LABORATORY
Jean and Beast are here, working on something or other. They
hear the racket and look at one another. Finally, Beast
leaves the room to go look.

71.

INT. HALLWAY
Logan chases a fleeing Rogue toward the front door of the
Mansion. She runs right past an open doorway and as he chases
her, a blue tree trunk comes out the door.
BLAM
Logan is clotheslined by Beast. He hits the floor, roaring in
pain and frustration.
LOGAN
Beast... wait...
But Beast is on him in an instant, no more the benevolent
creature we are used to. Now, he is a monster. Be picks up
Logan and throws him down the hall.
BOOM
Logan hits a wall and crumbles as Beast cooes at him for
core:
LOGAN (CONT'D)
You don't understand... That's not But he is off the floor and flying through the air again,
into and through a door at the far end of the hall.
Rogue watches this with great fascination. She smiles.
BEHIND HER, A LARGE BLACK METAL BOX FLOATS INTO VIEW. Behind
it walks MAGNETO, keeping it aloft with his power. He stands
next to Rogue and watches the two hulking creatures go at it.
MAGNETO
You're loving this, I know.
Magneto keeps moving, now the box behind him.
Beast is coming toward Logan again, furious. High on the
fight. Logan's hands are raised, claws retracting as a sign
of peace. No go.
BEAST
You know. I consider myself to be a
reasonable guy.
Wait -

LOGAN

72.

BEAST
I like to think sometimes I am actually
too forgiving. When you grow up looking
like a frosty blue, sable-covered
Volkswagen, you learn to understand where
people's anger comes from.
Logan can see Beast is getting angrier just talking. The
claws extend reluctantly. Logan will kill him if he has to.
BEAST (CONT'D)
But you, man..? Well... I have simply had
enough.
Logan FLASHES BIS CLAWS, CUTTING THE WALL AWAY BEHIND BIN. A
hole just big enough for him to wriggle through.
Beast lunges, but he is too late. Be reaches in, but cannot
quite get to Logan.
LOGAN
LISTEN TO ME, LISTEN.
BEAST
I'd rather not.
LOGAN
It's not Rogue... It's someone else.
BEAST
Just.... come... here...
.
.
LOGAN
Smell her, you moron. IT ISN'T ROGUE.
What?

BEAST

LOGAN
SMELL. BER. WHAT RIND OF ANIMAL ARE YOU?
BEAST STOPS. Be thinks. Be turns.
INT. HALLWAY
Magneto continues his curious tour-of the mansion. Be looks
ahead at a curious thing. A heavy wooden end table is flying
down the hall at great speed directly toward his head.
without ever losing the look of fascination on his face, he
drops to the floor. The black box keeps moving ahead and
SMASHES into the end table, splintering it.

73.

Magneto is up and heading in the direction from whence the
table came.
INT.

HALLWAY

BEAST AND LOGAN HEAR THE CRASH.
Jean.

BEAST

LOGAN
(Re: "Rogue")
I got this one.
Beast runs after the sound, brushing past Rogue as though she
were not there.
Logan comes out of the hole, his rage mounting. Rogue,
suddenly seeing a new order of things, starts to back up...
Then runs for her very life.
LOGAN ROARS and COMES AFTER HER AGAIN. This time ready for
business.
INT.

LABORATORY

Magneto comes carefully around the corner and into the lab.
There he sees Jean Grey standing calmly on the far side of
the room, hand behind her back.
He almost does not see the BASEBALL BAT, that whips inches
from his head.
Magnsto smiles.
The bat waves back and forth, whipping the air, warning him
to come no further.
MAGNETO
Telekinesis. Fascinating. What I wouldn't
give for that. Alas, metal is all I am
good for. But it seems to serve me well.
JUST THEN, A FULL SIZE EXAMINATION TABLE RISES UP FROM BEHIND
JEAN AND SMASHES INTO HER BACK.
She hits the floor, unconscious.
Suddenly, from out of nowhere, Beast charges directly at
Magneto with the stealth of a cat, catching him by surprise.
Magneto wheels in time to see nothing but a wall of Blue hair
and a hand of the same getting hold of his neck.

74.

INT. FRONT HALL
Chasing, smashing, screaming, howling.
Logan leaps across the room and grabs Mystique by the throat.
His claws extend to,her throat, his fist holding still and
letting the natural force of the claws do the work.
Slowly, they push into the flesh under her chin. She tries to
pull away, but she is held fast.
LOGAN
Who are you people? What is it you want
with me?
Mystique is defiant. Smiling.
Kill me.

MYSTIQUE

LOGAN
In a minute. Now tell me.
MYSTIQUE
Nice get-up. You bulge in almost all the
right places.
The claws extend a little more, drawing blood.
But before he can elicit her to speak, another voice calls
out to him.
MAGNETO (O.S.)
Looooooooo-gan.
From deep in the mansion:
MAGNETO (O.S.) (CONT'D)
Looooooooo-gan.
Logan thinks for a minute, then turns Mystique around,
holding his claws to the base of her skull and his free hand
around her throat.
INT. HALLWAY - MANSION
As Logan follows the voice.
MAGNETO (O.S.)
Looooooooo-gan. Come to me, Logan.

75.

INT.

LABORATORY

Logan comes to the open door to see Beast in the center of
the room with Magneto by the throat, his giant blue hand
making it look no thicker than a man's wrist.
But Magneto, for a man in such a predicament, seems
frightfully calm.
Beast, on the other hand, looks terrified. Then Logan sees
why.
Jean Grey is on the other side of the room, still
unconscious. Hovering over her are the X-ray and the
examination table and both are encrusted with every horrible
sharp metal object in the room.
Stale mate. If Beast squeezes, Jean is gone.
MAGNETO
Do I have to say it?
Somehow, Logan seems pretty sure that this guy will not have
the same sense of mercy for Mystique if called upon. Be lets
her go. He walks up to the old man in the funny helmet that
calmly wheezes in the tightness of Beast's grasp.
At last, he is face to face with Magneto.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
You are everything I had hoped you would
be.
LOGAN
You're Magneto.
MAGNETO..
And I was hoping to surprise you.
LOGAN
What do you want?
MAGNETO
The question really is, what do you want,
Logan?
LOGAN
I'll be sure to get back to you in the
next life.
SHOOK. The claws extend to their maximum menace and come
within a fraction of an inch of Magneto's eyes.

76.

LOGAN.

BEAST

THE PILE OF TREACHEROUS METAL DROPS A FOOT then halts, just
above Jean. Magneto looks up at Beast.
Logan steps back, frustrated. Beast lets go.
MAGNETO
Where did Xavier find you all?
He rubs his neck and looks up at Beast, studying him
carefully.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
Just look at you. Perfection.
Beast watched the Metal waver up and down, teasing.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
How ill at ease you most feel here. Bow
much like a freak among freaks, where we
come from, I am the odd man out. The
closest thing to human... Bow I envy you.
BEAST
Why are you doing this?
MAGNETO
If I told you that one day your children
would thank me... would you believe it?
A LOUD BANGING SOUND.
Beast and Logan turn and see that the black box that Magneto
has "brought" with him has opened via two hinged panels at
the front.
Inside are dozens of sharp, hooked spines, much like an old
Fashioned Iron lady. The open panels have strange shaped
indentations with similar spikes.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
Tell Logan what he's won, Mystique.
Mystique stands by it, mocking the movements of a
presentation model on the price is right.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
Okay, Logan. Hop in.
OH MY GOD.

JEAN (O.S.)

77.

Now they all turn to see that Jean has come to under the pile
of metal. She pushes with her mind and the metal starts to
rise.
Logan seizes the opportunity to move for Magneto, but the
moment is lost when Magneto bears down and the mass of steel
violently forces itself down to within inches of Jean.
Her whole body trembles with the force she generates, but it
is only enough to hold him at bay. Magneto on the other hand,
seems to be using about as much strength as it would take to
trim his fingernails.
MAGNETO
I could just grab you by that metal
skeleton of yours and throw you in, but I
would have to put this down.
The metal above Jean wavers.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
Not to mention the mess you would make of
yourself if I had to force you in...
Please. I really am trying to make this
as painless as possible for everyone.
What do you say?
Defeated, and utterly agonized at being so, Logan turns and
steps inside the Iron Lady. He puts his arms in the
indentations on the doors. As they close, they fold Logan's
fists inward just as Mystique demonstrated. If he should
extend his claws now, he will only succeed in driving them
through his lungs and heart.
The iron lady closes. Then it lifts off the ground, floating
toward the door with Logan inside, his head sticking out
through a hole in the top like some black, demented personal
sauna.
Thick metal bands hinge closed, MEETING AT THE BACK - behind
Logan - where they finally lock in place.
Magneto turns to Beast.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
Now listen very carefully, brother. If you should step into the field I have
holding that table, it will come crashing
down with enough force to turn your
friend into a new variety of floor wax.
Same applies if you try to stop us from
leaving.
(MORE)

78.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
Not to mention the several hundred steel
spikes I will drive into Mr. Logan here
for him to ponder while you take three
days to cut him out of that box,
incinerating what's inside.
Beast understands and nods, furious. Helpless.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
I do love a good check-mate.
(Looking around the room)
Right then. We'll just be going.
And Magneto follows the box out the door, Mystique laughing
in tow.
Now Jean and Beast are left alone with their quandary. Beast
tries to move toward her, but as promised, the huge mass of
metal starts to press down on Jean, who is unable to hold it
off despite her efforts.
JEAN
Wait, wait, wait.
Beast backs off.
BEAST
Let me think. Just hold on.
JEAN
Go after them.
BEAST
I can''t do JEAN
Forget about me. Go after them.
NO.

BEAST

JEAN
Listen to me, you flea circus, I'll
handle this. Go get Logan.
Beast shakes his head, inspecting the metal above her, then
looking around the room for something, anything. Sadly, most
of what he could use for leverage is hovering above her.
Beast thinks for the longest time as the metal again begins
to push down. Jean fights it heroically, managing to get it a
few feet in the air before it starts to press slowly down
again.

79.

Finally, Beast begins to breathe, psyching himself up.
JEAN (CONT'D)
Don't you dare.
I have to.

BEAST

JEAN
I CAN HANDLE II

NOOOOOOOOOOO.

Beast LEAPS, jumping under the metal and covering Jean with
his immense body, forming a frame to absorb what will surely
kill him.
CRASH
IMPACT
Jean opens her eye to a matt of Blue hair and silence. She
gasps for air, smothering under the weight of Beast's body.
Then, he moans. Lifts his head. Comes eye to eye with Jean.
PULL OUT TO REVEAL:
The Metal has fallen in a circle around them. Not one shard
has touched them after all. Beast realizes he himself is
squeezing the life out of her and he jumps up. Helping her to
her feet.
They look at the mess around them.
BEAST
You have to admit, it would have been a
great way to go.
INT. MAGNETO'S HELICOPTER
Logan is tightly trundled in his box, no way to struggle.
Toad is at the controls, Blob, Pyro and Mystique all stare at
this newcomer. He stares back at them. Most of all, he glares
at Sabertooth, who most certainly would like another piece.
MAGNETO
A day of discovery for you, eh, Logan? Less and less alone you are with every
turn of the head. What made you go to
Alaska? What was it you were hiding from?
Did that nasty temper of yours get just a
little too far out of hand? I know all
about it. I know quite a lot about you in
fact. If you're good, I'll tell you all.

80.

Logan spits at him.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
You may believe all the answers await you
in the next life, but then again, what if
you're not on their guest list?
Logan sneers, that last comment striking home on his one and
only fear.
INT. WESTCHESTER MANSION - FRONT HALL
Xavier and the others come in through the wreckage that is
the house.
All of the students are on the front lawn, waiting quietly.
Beast and Jean come worn and tattered out to greet them.
Everyone looks at each other, defeated.
ZVT. LABORATORY - LATER
Xavier stares at the ruins of the lab.
XAVIER
What on Earth could Magneto be up to?
CYCLOPS
Sounds like a matter of wait and see,
now.
JEAN
Logan could be dead by then.
Rogue turns and walks out of the room. Cyclops looks at Jean
with some frustration.
CYCLOPS
Seems to me that works out for everyone.
BEAST
He gave himself up for her, Scott.
Whatever you may think of him, you owe
him that.
INT. BATHROOM
Rogue shuts herself in the bathroom and cries. Looking at
herself in-the mirror, touching her face much in the way she
touched Logan's.

81.

INT. LABORATORY
STORM
Can you find him, xavier?
Xavier is already straining with his mind.
XAVIER
They are all together. ... somewhere...
I...
(He quits, tired) )
Whatever Magneto is using for that
helmet, he seems to have around the lot
of them, now.
INT . BATHROOM
Rogue is slowly getting a hold of herself, splashing water on
her face.
SUDDENLY, a gurgling sound. She looks down and sees water
bubbling in the toilet.
THEN A HUGE, VISCOUS BUBBLE...
INT. LABORATORY
CYCLOPS
I am not trying to be callous, but let's
look at it rationally. For all we know,
Logan and Magneto were together at some
point.
JEAN
Oh for God's sake, Scott CYCLOPS
Just here me out. We don't know who this
guy is, where he comes from. What if he
is some experiment of Magneto's.
Something that got away. What if he isn't
supposed to be out in the world.
BEAST
I have to say that could be Rogue comes bursting out of the bathroom, her face twisted in
horror.
INT. BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER
Everyone comes rushing into the bathroom and over to the
toilet, looking in. LONG PAUSE. Nothing.

82.

They look rather silly all staring at the calm water. Just as
they are backing away, looking at Rogue, a gurgling sound
comes from the corner.
They all turn to see: .
Senator Kelly, or what is left of him. Be has now evolved
into nothing more than a mass of vaguely humanbid jelly.
KELLY
Help...me... It hurts...
INT. LABORATORY - LATER
Jean Grey takes samples of Kelly's plasma, while Beast probes
him here and there. Rogue/ Storm and Cyclops stand watching
in horror. Xavier tries to see the face of his adversary in
this blob of gelatin.
XAVIER
What did they do to you? Can you tell me
anything?
KELLY
Un... conscious... Light... Bright...
light.
Kelly flinches, his whole "body" rippling.
KELLY (CONT'D)
Pain... Terrible pain. Xavier pulls
himself closer, looking deep into the
thing.
XAVIER
Open your mind.
And the thing that is Kelly begins to weep as Xavier probes
into his mind.
XAVIER'S P.O.V. - MINDREAD
FLASH
INT. MAGNETO'S LAIR
THE CAGE OF SENATOR KELLY. NOW HIS P.O.V. as seen by Xavier.
Vision fades in and out in a sedated haze.
He is laid out on a gurney, being wheeled toward bars that
seem to have no door. Then they bend back to allow the gurney
to be wheeled - through.

83.

He looks up and sees Magneto wheeling the gurney, smiling
down with a wink at the Senator.
Kelly looks down at his feet and sees the corridor lined with
those mysterious pieces of machinery... somehow familiar.
They all seem to be versions of the same thing.
FLASH
Kelly is looking around a large, domed room, in the center is
another one of these devices - larger than all the others and
this time even more familiar.
Were it Logan's vision and not Xavier's, he might notice the
similarity to the device in the room during his dream. But
this thing is familiar for a different reason. It is familiar
to all of us.
Long and cylindrical, tapering toward the bottom. A glowing
head at the top with an oddly shapen - almost misshapen translucent cover.
BUT We ONLY GET A GLIMPSE
FLASH
KELLY's/XAVIER'S P.O.v. follow the shaft to the base and we
see again the fork with the brightly burning filament.
FLASH
KELLY is IN THE AIR NOW, stealing a glance below to see that
Magneto is using his power to hold the gurney aloft. It is
guided into the center of the misshapen head of this terrible
machine and finds a secure seating.
SLOWLY BUILDING LIGHT
A HUMMING which builds slowly to a rumble, then a roar.
AND THE SOUND OF KELLY SCREAMING JARRING FLASH - A VIOLENT CRASH OF NOISE AND LIGHT
INT.

LABORATORY

Xavier snaps back in his chair, physically effected by the
vision. Frightened, shocked, perhaps even in pain. His
breathing is erratic.
All rush to help him, but he waves them away, collecting
himself.

84.

BEAST
What is it?
XAVIER
Evil... Something... evil.
INT. LABORATORY - LATER
The thing that was Kelly "sits" in the corner, whimpering.
The television is on in the opposite corner, tuned to CNN.
NEWSCASTER
... it is believed now after seventy-two
hours have passed that Senator Scott
Frank Kelly and his advisor Prank Guyrich
have been missing. All of Washington is
perplexed as to what may have become of
the pair, last seen leaving the white
House after a closed meeting with the
President...
INT. HALLWAY - LATER
Everyone, minus Kelly, stand in the hallway whispering.
Xavier is shaking his head.
CYCLOPS
A long cylinder you said. A warhead of
some kind?
JEAN
An antenna?

,

STORM
Was it part of a bigger structure?
Xavier shakes his head, frustrated.
XAVIER
It is something so simple. I just didn't
get a good enough look at it, but it
seems so.
STORM
What does it do?
XAVIER
From what I am able to surmise, Magneto
has developed a device to artificially
trigger the Mutator gene, effectively
giving him the power to turn anyone he
pleases...

85.

Oh God.

STORM

JEAN
But how did Kelly XAVIBR
They think he is dead.
BEAST
Be might be better off.
All eyes to Beast.
BEAST (CONT'D)
Be seems to be adapting to his
environment literally from room to room,
like a salamander changes color. Kelly
is, or at least recently was, a perfect
organism. The mutant of all mutants.
CYCLOPS
So maybe this machine is what made Logan
BEAST
Certainly not Magneto's design. Kelly's
metabolism, heart rate, respiratory even the cell production - all are
working at an exponential rate.
JEAN
Bow long does he have?
BEAST
I couldn't say.
CYCLOPS
Then what does Magneto want with Logan?
Beast's eyes light up with a revelation.
Tungsten.

BEAST

All of them listen. Rogue with especially deep interest,
What?

CYCLOPS

BEAST
Tungsten. The filament in a lightbulb.
Jean nods, understanding.

86.

JEAN
When Edison made the lightbulb, his
greatest challenge was finding the right
filament. He tried everything. Copper/
platinum, even human hair... But tungsten
was the thing.
BEAST
(To Xavier)
You described a brilliant source of light
radiating from a fork at the bottom of
this... machine. A light liXe none you
had ever seen.
Xavier nods.
BEAST (CONT'D)
Adamantium. Adamantium is what makes this
thing work. It makes perfect sense.
They all look at one another.
JEAN
He isn't after Logan at all.
XAVIER
His skeleton.
CYCLOPS
But what would Magneto A TERRIBLE SOUND FROM THE NEXT ROOM. As close to a scream as
the thing can make.
INT.

LABORATORY

Everyone rushes in, but the Senator is gone. Or at least
appears to be.
It is Xavier who notices the pool of jelly on the floor, now
with the consistency of Olive oil. He reaches down and dips
his fingers in the thin film.
My god...

XAVIER

JEAN
What is it?
XAVIER
He's still alive...
Everyone steps back a bit.

87.

XAVIER (CONT'D)
Such pain... Pain like I could never have
imagined... As though the pain itself
were keeping him alive... living off of
him...
Tears come to Xavier's eyes.
XAVTER
Poor creature. Poor, cursed creature...
Then Xavier arches in his chair as though jolted with
electricity. Jean holds him to keep him from falling to the
floor.
XAVIER
I'm alright. I'm alright... He's gone.
Please... a moment.
Xavier turns away to collect himself.
JEAN
We have to find him.
CYCLOPS
He could be anywhere in JEAN
They're going to kill him. Burn him up
like kindling.
Rogue turns away from all of this, tears coming to her eyes.
CYCLOPS
And take us out in the process. Even if
we could find him, we JEAN
You don't want to find him.
What?

CYCLOPS

JEAN
You heard me. You don't want to find him.
CYCLOPS
That's ridiculous.
STORM
Guys. Come on.

88.

ANGLE ON: Rogue... she is looking up at the television which
is still on, with the sound down.
She is looking at yet another report on Ellis Island.
JEAN
I am shocked that you could be so utterly
CYCLOPS
Dammit, Jean, this is not about some
petty jealousy, this is STORM
GUYS. Enough. This is not the time or the
place.
All of them start to argue, voices overlapping in chaos. The
first several times the voice tries to get their attention,
it is almost inaudible. Then:
ROGUE
FOR GOD'S SAKE SHUT UP.
All eyes turn. Xavier is wheeling up beside Rogue who is
looking up at the television.
Storm, Cyclops and Jean all walk over to them, wondering what
they are looking at.
ROGUE (CONT'D)
Wait... Wait for it...
Xavier is already nodding slightly.
ANGLE ON:
The television image is from the P.O.V. of a helicopter
circling Ellis island, taking in all the security and
construction. HUGE RISERS made for the delegates and a
temporary enclosure that will keep them safe from wir.ci
while leaving the roof open to see what the helicopter sees
as it comes around for one more pass...
THE STATUE OF LIBERTY. TORCH HELD ALOFT, BECKONING ALL THE
WORLD'S DOWNTRODDEN.
ROGUE (CONT'D)
Was it something like that?
Xavier's eyes close in on the torch itself.

89.

Slowly he begins to nod, and we do too. There is no doubting
the confirmation of the familiar shape that is so much like
Magneto's machine of unspeakable horror.
INT.

HANGAR

******
******
DISCUSS WITH BRYAN INCLUSION OF AND TAKE-OFF OF X-JET. X-MEN
IN FULL REGALIA, PREPPED FOR COMBAT WITH THE BROTHERHOOD.
******
******
AS JEAN IS DONNING HER UNIFORM I'm sorry.

CYCLOPS

JEAN
No... I'm sorry. What I said was wrong.
CYCLOPS
No... No... I hate him. It's not
rational, not fair - hardly even
justified. But when I see the two of you JEAN
He fascinates, me, Scott. As a scientist.
That's all.
CYCLOPS
That isn't it.
JEAN
What then? What could it possibly be?
CYCLOPS
The way you looked in his eyes.
JEAN
It's never the same as when I look at And she sees him touching the visor self-consciously with a
trembling hand. She shudders... reaching for his hand and
taking it away so that he can see her.
JEAN (CONT'D)
Oh, Scott... Scott, I am so sorry...

90.

CYCLOPS
For all of his pain, all of his rage. I
would trade places with him in an instant
if it meant I could look in your eyes and
you in mine.
Tears come to Jean's eyes, making her all the more selfaware. Beast comes out of the X-Jet, waving to them. They
shake off the moment and follow Storm up the ramp.
From where she stands, Rogue debates, and then follows,
dashing inside as the hatch to the X-Jet closes.
LIFT-OFF. The jet turns and clears the hangar before blasting
off into the night sky.
Xavier is all alone now. He looks down at his wheelchair and
thumps the heel of his fist on the armrest in frustration.
Finally, he turns around and wheels himself back inside,
swallowed up by the shadows of the hangar.
EXT. ELLIS ISLAND - NIGHT
An Aerial shot showing us the whole of the fully prepared.
Security of every kind from every country covers every inch
of the island.
Helicopters are coming in at the rate of about one every
minute to deliver dignitaries and their minions from all over
the globe.
EXT. MANHATTAN HARBOR
The water is filled with police and Coast guard vessels
watching the water closely.
EXT. ISLAND - MAIN ENTRANCE
In front of the main hall to Ellis Island, where once
immigrants poured into the new world by the millions, is a
large set of risers specially designed for the heads of state
to sit in audience to the presentation that awaits them.
A huge military band off to one side plays music to help with
the milling about and shaking of hands.
The President himself is in the crowd, himself meeting and
greeting, a mob of Secret Service always right there.

91.

A YASSIR ARAFAT TYPE, who we will call Yassir Arafat, comes
up to the President and smiles. He speaks so only Yassir can
hear.
PRESIDENT
I have four hundred grand for poker after
this.
The two men LAUGH and then HUG to the flashing of a million
bulbs.
YASSIR
You still owe me six thousand acres in
Montana from the last game.
Then they speak so the reporters can hear, but not too
obviously.
YASSIR (CONT'D)
A most wonderful presentation this
evening, Mr. President.
PRESIDENT
The people of the United States welcome
you.
YASSIR
I have to say, I have not seen this many
Israelis on all sides since the six day
war.
LAUGH from the eager press.
PRESIDENT
Not to worry, not to worry. You're safer
here tonight than at home in your very
own bed.
Smattering of ass-kissy applause. Arafat and the President
wave to press and the like, Arafat leaning in so only the
president can hear.
YASSIR
You have no idea just how treacherous
that can be.
EXT. ISLAND
From atop a high perch, looking down. A deserted part of the
island. Away, from the action.
PAN ACROSS THE EDGE OF THE ISLAND

92.

Every fifty feet or so, uniformed Secret Service agents keep
tight watch on the island.
ANGLE ON:
One Secret Service guy in particular.
PUSH IN FROM ABOVE - we realize we are pushing in unusually
fast, as though we are falling perhaps.
WHAM. A sickening crunch.
Toad lands on top of the Secret Service guy. We have been
watching from his P.O.V. The Secret Service man is crumpled
into a heap. A real frog ribbits O.S.
Toad looks around quietly, listens.... THEN LEAPS, out of
frame. Hold on the body of the Secret Service guy.
LONG PAUSE.
ANOTHER SICKENING CRUNCH OFF SCREEN.
EXT. ISLAND ELSEWHERE
Two Secret Service guys approach one another. One is holding
a smoke, the other is producing a lighter. Just as his smoke
is about to hit the flame, the flame dodges to one side. He
moves the smoke to follow it, and the flame dodges the other
way.
The guy with the smoke looks at the guy with the lighter as
if to say "knock it off." The guy with the lighter shrugs as:
THE FLAME INSTANTLY GROWS TO A RAGING INTENSITY, ENGULFING
THEM.
As they are incinerated and their ashes fall to the ground,
Pyro climbs into view from the seawall below, dripping wet.
EXT. ISLAND ELSEWHERE
A Coast Guard boat crawls into view just off shore. A Secret
Service man in the foreground waves to the boat as it passes
by.
EXT. COAST GUARD BOAT DECK
A thirty footer. Fast and sturdy..
The PILOT OF THE BOAT, a man in his late forties, waves back.

93.

EXT.

ISLAND

As the Secret Service guy waves, he jolts upright, his face
contorting in impossible pain. Slowly, he is lifted off the
ground.
EXT. COAST GUARD BOAT DECK
PILOT'S P.O.V.
Sabertooth holds the last Secret Service man aloft, impaled
on his claws. Be waves now, the body swaying this way and
that before he casually throws it to the ground.
The Pilot turns to the wheel of the boat as he MORPHS INTO
MYSTIQUE and turns the boat toward the island.
EXT. ISLAND - BOTTOM OF THE SEAWALL
Manmade rocky shore. The boat bumps and grinds on the rock.
Sabertooth jumps down to the deck and meets Magneto coming up
from below. They nod to one another and walk toward the tarp
on the back of the boat, pulling it back to reveal:
THE BLACK BOX with Logan inside. He is unconscious, but
coming to. Magneto whips out a syringe and shoots up with a
little something. Logan fades out again.
ANOTHER, MUCH LARGER OBJECT is on the deck of the boat under
another tarp, but we cannot see what it is.
Sabertooth grabs the box with almost no effort and straps it
to his back.
He climbs the seawall with Mystique close behind. Magneto is
just about to follow when:
He saes something in the distance.
MAGNETO'S P.O.V.
A fog bank is drifting in from the seaward side. It creeps
slowly across the bay toward the island. Magneto thinks, then
shakes it off, following Sabertooth.
EXT. ISLAND - MAIN ENTRANCE
More copters are landing and more dignitaries arrive. The
band strikes up, LOUD SPEAKERS BLARE THEIR MUSIC ALL OVER THE
ISLAND.
They play the national anthem of each dignitary as he or she
arrives.

94.

EXT. ISLAND
The sound of the band in the distance. Sabertooth walks up to
a LARGE SET OF METAL DOORS surrounded by stately old concrete
bricks.
Toad, Pyro and Mystique keep a lookout as Magneto waits.
SABERTOOTH RIPS THE DOORS FROM THEIR HINGES and walks in.
Magneto follows. The rest stay behind.
INT. BUILDING
Silent in here. Tomb-like. Magneto and Sabertooth make their
way toward a large stairwell in the middle of the room.
The begin their ascent.
Magneto looks up and sees that the stairs go up for quite
Some way.
EXT. MANHATTAN HARBOR
The fog is thick now.
INT. COAST GUARD CUTTER - HHEELHOUSE
THE CAPTAIN of the cutter looks through his binoculars and
puzzles over this. His 1ST MATE stands beside him.
CAPTAIN
Hardly the night for it.
1ST MATE
All the hot air on Ellis.
They laugh as:
EXT. MANHATTAN HARBOR
THE FOG CREEPS AROUND ELLIS, never rising above the sea wall,
but merely blanketing the ocean surface for about twenty feet
or so.
INT.

COAST GUARD CUTTER - HHEELHOUSE

The first mate1 looks at the sonar, radar, etc. Nothing but a
dense blob of fog.
1ST MATE
Navigational is shot, sir. Can't see
thing.

95.

CAPTAIN
Call it in. Advise fleet to weigh anchor
and wait it out.
EXT. COAST GUARD CUTTER
The anchor drops.
VARIOUS SHOTS OF SHIPS ALL OVER THE HARBOR DOING THE SAME.
In moments, the whole of Ellis island is fog bound.
EXT. ISLAND
again, from high up. Where we first saw Toad's P.O.V.
Now it is Magneto who looks down. From atop what, we cannot
tell. He sees the fog engulfing the whole rim of the island
and puzzles over it. He is not comfortable.
Sabertooth is beside him.
MAGNETO
I have a very sneaking suspicion we are
not the only party crashers. Tell the
others not to hesitate. Kill who you have
to.. .
Sabertooth could not be happier. He leaves to deliver the
news.
BLACK
INT. SMALL ROOM - LATER
CLOSE UP ON: LOGAN. He comes to, still in the box with
nothing but his head sticking out. He struggles
instinctively, but winces in agony when he does.
He looks around him and sees that he is in a strangely shaped
room with barely enough space for the box and Magneto, who
smiles at him in the half-darkness.
The box is on its back now and Logan is as helpless as an
overturned turtle.
MAGNETO
God worked wonders when He made you,
Logan. Unfortunately, it's not His work
I'm interested in. It's what Man did to
you... when God was through. Man was
cruel to you, wasn't he?

96.

LOGAN
Where are we?
MAGNETO
At the frontier of a new civilization.
The breakwater of new era for mankind.
We're backstage at the encore of
creation. Three minutes to curtain.
Why..?

LOGAN

MAGNETO
That's the question, isn't it? This is
the place in the story where the Hero
learns the secret of his identity, the
reasons for his life of torment, the
plans of his nemesis and finally finds
his retention. Are you sure you really
want to know who you really are?
Logan's eyes say it all.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
Well, frankly, I have no idea.
Logan shakes his head. "Of course."
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
I know a little about the Canadian
Military. I know about an experiment
called Wolverine during the war, though I
never could find its intended purpose.
Maybe to build a perfect fighting man,
maybe to stop one. A lot of people were
doing a lot of unholy things in those
days. No one was better than anyone else
in the end. At the bottom of it all, the
culprit I suppose was simple human
nature. Man's instinct to survive, Logan.
If there really is such a thing as evil,
you'll find it there.
Logan struggles now in vain, wailing as his own blood flows
up his neck from the spikes inside the box.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
I would take the Adamantium out of you
were there a way. Strange stuff really.
The only thing that can generate the
energy to melt adamantium is more
adamantium. Even then, when you melt it
there is no heat.

97.

MAGNETO (CONT'D)
Something I have not been able to work
out. In this case, you are the rod and
the staff all in one, you magnificent
creature. It breaks my heart to see you
go.
LOGAN
You could at least do me the courtesy of
telling me what I was dying for.
MAGNETO
Inside you, my friend, is the key to
unlocking the secret of evolution.
Together we are going to shove man into
his highest level. Tonight, every living
creature as far as the eye can see that
does not already share our gifts, will be
changed forever.
LOGAN
And you think man will be happy about it?
MAGNETO
Ohhhhh, I can understand your being
bitter. A bit put off. But it hasn't been
the same for you as it has been for all
of us.
LOGAN
I think it has. I think the reason you're
doing this is less an act of giving than
an act of getting.
Magneto smiles.
MAGNETO
That might be how you LOGAN
You have some baggage, man and none of it
is carry-on. I don't know who did it to
you, but I'll bet he's not the one paying
your freight tonight.
MAGNETO
If you'll excuse me...
Magneto is visibly angered by the words. He opens a hatch
below him and slides out feet first until only his head is
visible. Then he pauses.

98.

MAGNETO (CONT'D)
And you're right, Logan. I am bitter. I
am angry. I do have an axe and I am
grinding it on the innocent. None of it
will make me sorry. And none of it will
make me wrong.
LOGAN
No... just familiar.
And with that, Magneto is gone.
EXT. STRUCTURE
Magneto comes to stand on the railing outside from his high
perch, overlooking the island. From here we pull out to
reveal at last where he is.
HE IS NOT ON ELLIS ISLAND AT ALL.
Instead, he ,is on the catwalk around the torch of the Statue
of Liberty, about a mile away. He looks over at the activity
on Ellis Island, hearing the band and inhaling the cool
evening breeze.
MAGNETO
Give me your tired, your hungry, your
poor.
And he turns to the bright lights of Manhattan and its seven
million inhabitants.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
Bring me your huddled masses.
He brings a radio to his lips.
Lights.

MAGNETO (CONT'D)

EXT. POWER STATION
Sabertooth is tearing the padlocks off of the generator shed
that powers the island. He grabs a hold of the bare conduits
that lead from the power supply and YANKS.
EXT. ELLIS ISLAND - NIGHT
The President on a podium. Liberty island in the background.
PRESIDENT
... and as we stand here side by side
tonight.
(MORE)

99.
PRESIDENT (CONT'D)
As we put aside our differences and share
with one another good will. As we gather
together here, in the shadow of the LIBERTY ISLAND GOES BLACK.
From where they are, the dignitaries see the statue of
Liberty vanish in darkness. The crowd reacts with murmurs of
concern.
ANGLE ON:
A SECRET SERVICE AGENT raises a radio to his mouth.
SECRET SERVICE NAN
Liberty one, liberty one, this is
horizon, do you copy.
A MAN'S VOICE RESPONDS.
MAN'S VOICE
Go, horizon.
SECRET SERVICE MAN
(cont'd)
(on radio)
Liberty, what's the situation with the
lights, over?
EXT. LIBERTY ISLAND
The man in question is ANOTHER SECRET SERVICE AGENT. He
stands in profile, looking up at the statue.
OTHER AGENT
Uhhh, Horizon, we've seem to have had a
shutdown at the generator, we're five by
five. There now, checking it out. Give us
three minutes.
As he speaks, The Agent turns his head to reveal the other
side of his face.
IT IS MYSTIQUE. She Morphs back into her full self and smiles
at Sabertooth.
EXT. STATUE - TORCH
Magneto takes this moment in the darkness to point his hands
and all of his concentration on the bottom of the torch in
Lady Liberty's hands.
ANGLE ON:

100.

BOTTOM OF TORCH.
The caplike end piece of the torch begins to vibrate, metal
groans, twists...
WITH A CRACK OF METAL, it comes free, dropping slightly and
then hovering, slowly descending to the sea.
EXT. SEAWALL
The boat they came in on. See the tarp and what is under it.
IT RISES IN THE AIR, standing upright. The tarp slides to the
deck to reveal: THE DEVICE. The one Kelly saw, Xavier saw...
Logan saw. It rises higher in the air.
EXT. STATUE - TORCH
THE ARM OF THE LADY BENDS AND GROANS SLIGHTLY under this new
weight. The device cooing up passes the end of the torch on
it's way down. The end of the torch nestles gently into the
fog below and finally into the sea where it sinks quietly.
THE DEVICE rises up and into the bottom of the torch itself.
THE BALL AT IT'S HEAD EXTENDS
INT. TORCH
It expands, filling the half-darkness of the torch head.
LOGAN FEELS THE BOX SNIVELING UPRIGHT as things shift and
metal clangs, shudders, creaks. A slight whirring sound and
then it all seems to lock.
THE SOUND OF SOMETHING COMING TO LIFE WITH ENERGY AS IF AN
ENGINE WERE WARMING UP.
EXT. LIBERTY ISLAND
LIGHTS COME ON AGAIN ON LIBERTY ISLAND. The statue lights up
to the sounus of a crowd ooing and ahhinc* in the distance.
INT.

TORCH

LIGHTS COME ON IN THE TORCH. Logan looks around to see what
he could only hear a moment ago.
The inside of the torch looks hauntingly familiar. He is
inside a device he has seen before. The device from his
dreams of where he was made.
LOGAN SCREAMS IN HORROR, reaching the brink of madness.

101.

*****
*****
FIGHT SEQUENCE
*****
X-Men take Liberty Island and square off against Magneto's
brotherhood, having used the fog (courtesy of Storm) to hide
their arrival. First as a one on one, then in a mighty brawl
with each helping the other in between being attacked.
As the device is activated, Logan's skeleton begins to heat
up. THE LIQUID LIGHT fills the torch and begins to emanate.
The only way to stop it is for Logan to free himself from the
device by popping his claws through his own chest, tearing
through the lock on the back.
As the x-Men fight, Sabertooth scrambles to the top of the
statue at the behest of Magneto to stop Logan, who is already
mortally wounded from his own escape.
In a berserker rage, he tears through the shell of the torch.
On Ellis island, the sudden, brief show of light is seen as
an effect to punctuate the President's comments. It receives
ignorant applause from the dignitaries.
The Secret Service, fully aware that this is not part of
their program, try to send boats over to investigate, but
they end up colliding with one another in the thick,
confounding fog.
Logan attacks Magneto, slashing through the railing. Magneto
falls, only to use his Magnetic powers to pull himself back
up.
Logan sees the loose bits of Metal around him pulling free
and heading toward Magneto and is suddenly grabbed by the
magnetism himself. He extends his claws, waiting. Magneto and
Logan are in a stalemate. Magneto is trying to pull him over
the side, Logan keeps him from being able to climb to safety
by swiping at him with his claws.
All of this ends when Sabertooth comes up behind Logan, yanks
him up by the neck and throws him over and off the top of the
torch. Magneto, who is still holding Logan, is yanked
violently upward and has to grab onto the remains of the
railing for dear life.

102.

Sabertooth jumps after Logan, who has fallen from the torch
and landed between two spires on the crown of the statue.
Fight ensues between Sabertooth and Logan resulting in the
decimation of the crown as well as each other. Slash, heal,
slash, healm and so on. They fall through a hole they have
torn in the top of the head.
All of this is intercut with fight scene between the X-Men
and the brotherhood. Toad and Pyro are killed in particularly
gruesome and just ways, while Mystique ends up chasing Rogue
into a confrontation, the end of which we do not witness,
leaving us hanging.
Magneto is making his escape,, having climbed to the bottom
of the statue when he is ambushed by all the other X-Men
(Storm, Jean, Beast, Cyclops) He manages to hold them all off
in a spectacular display of his powex.
This is intercut with the winding down of the fight between
Sabertooth and Logan. They are literally beaten to near death
and are sluggishly trying to finish one another off.
They come to rest at the feet of Magneto in the main room of
the base of the statue.
We reveal that Magneto has Storm, Cyclops, Jean and Beast all
pinned with twisted metal innards from the statue itself.
Sharp spires are slowly creeping toward their throats,
threatening to kill them.
Logan and Sabertooth are nearly oblivious, until finally
Logan pounds Sabertooth into unconsciousness, standing over
him/ extending his claws for the kill:
(We now resume our regularly-scheduled screenplay)
IHT. BASE OP STATUE
Logan kneels over Sabertooth, who struggles to fight him
still. Logan cocks his fist back, claws gleaming and
slathered with blood.
His rage now at a high like we have never seen and finally
with good reason, Logan stands, gathering all his strength
for the death blow when:
HIS CLAWS RETRACT AS HE SWINGS. The kill becomes a punch and
nothing more, knocking Sabertooth senseless.
The X-Men, despite their predicament, are all moved.
Logan collapses and rolls away. He and Sabertooth lie panting
in a pool of their own blood, their wounds healing instantly.

103.

Magneto smiles ironically.
MAGNETO
All for nothing. The moral of tonight's
performance.
The metal trapping the X-Men tightens its grip, squeezing the
air out of them while sharp shards push into gore them to
death.
Jean tries as best she can to fight him. The two powers
clash.
JEAN
It wouldn't have worked, Max. You're
machine was flawed. The mutations burned
twice as bright for half as long. Less in
fact.
MAGNETO
A concept you will come to understand.
Now stop resisting the inevitable.
Out of the corner of her eye, Jean catches a shadow of
movement behind Magneto.
JEAN
What good will killing us do? Aren't we
like you, Max. Don't our deaths at least
mean murder to you?
MAGNETO
It is treason what you've done tonight
and you will be treated as traitors are.
And ROGUE COMES OUT OF THE SHADOWS BEHIND MAGNETO, sneaking
towards him. All of the X-Men try to hide their reactions of
sudden hope. Jean continues to stall.
JEAN
If you kill us now, you'll never find out
where the rest of the adamantium is. And
the creeping metal stops, creeps back a
bit.
MAGNETO
What is this?
And as Rogue gets within a few feet of him, she MORPHS back
into Mystique - all hope dying with the transformation.

104.

The X-Men slump with a final sense of defeat.
ANGLE ON:
Logan looks up, but cannot move. His hand merely twitches...
Claws extending a few inches.
MYSTIQUE
Don't listen to them. It's a trap.
Surprised, Magneto turns to her, the metal easing back
further.
What is?
THIS.

MAGNETO
MYSTIQUE

And she lunges, grabbing his face with her hands MORPHING
BACK INTO ROGUE - her real identity.
A TERRIBLE SHUDDER THROUGHOUT THE STATUE. A RUMBLING TO THE
VERY FOUNDATION.
Magneto opens his mouth is a silent scream as his power is
slowly sucked from him. Every piece of steel and iron metal
within a hundred feet is pulled inward, including the metal
around the X-Men, freeing them.
Rogue and Magneto are suddenly surrounded by a cage of
shrapnel as the statue's steel rivets pull loose one at a
time, threatening to bring the very structure down on top of
them.
Finally, Jean rushes forward. Unable to touch Rogue, she is
at a loss as to what to do.
JEAN
ROGUE. STOP... ROGUE.
Rogue, herself in a rage not unlike Logan's/ finally gets
control of herself and releases Magneto just before bringing
down the house.
She pulls herself free as the metal around them closes in on
Magneto.
Storm, Beast and Cyclops stand around Rogue, careful not to
touch her, but in their own way comforting her. She slowly
calms herself down from a rage to peace... then tears.

105.

EXT.

LIBERTY ISLAND

Beast walks out of the statue base, carrying a motionless
Logan. Storm and Jean flank Rogue, having wrapped in her in
storm's cloak, each with an arm around her.
Cyclops brings up the rear. They walks toward the seawall
where their boat is waiting.
But then, Cyclops stops. Be looks back. Then up at the statue
and its arm, finally focusing on its torch, where the device
is held.
With as much effort as it would take a "normal* human to
light a Cigarette, HE FIRES A BEAM OF ENERGY FROM HIS EYES.
EXT. ELLIS ISLAND
PRESIDENT
... For you, the leaders of the world...
for your people... For all mankind... I
say let us shed the prejudices of the
world we have left behind. LET US AT LAST
EMBRACE ONE ANOTHER AS EQUALS.
Behind him, THE TORCH ON THE STATUE EXPLODES IN A FIERY BALL
in a magnificent denouement.
PAUSE - the stunned dignitaries not expecting anything to
follow the first unexpected display.
The President is more shocked than anyone.
INT. WESTCHESTER MANSION - HALLWAY - DAY
Scott and Jean are huddled together on sofa, sleeping.
Storm sits wide awake, staring into space, deep in thought.
Rogue paces back and forth nervously.
No one is really listening to the television.
NEWSCASTER
SOMETHING PERTAINING TO RESULTS OF STATUE
CONFRONTATION) each country represented
at the assembly had someone to blame.
Israel blamed Palestinian separatists,
while the Australian's blamed the French.
Finally the German delegate chimed in
saying it was the work of Mutant
extremists as a demonstration of power to
the U.N. as a whole.

106.

THE IMAGE ON THE SCREEN TO ONE OF THOSE PHOTO OPS. The
president signing some sort of document on his desk while a
million flash bulbs record it.
NEWSCASTER (CONT'D)
This cry was heard the loudest only a few
days after the President vetoed the
mutant registration act with almost no
opposition. The word from capital hill is
that the bill lost most of its momentum
in the wake if the still unexplained
disappearance of Senator Scott Frank
Kelly last week.
Rogue hears that much.
Ha.

ROGUE

Just then, the door to the lab opens and all eyes turn toward
it. Jean and Scott stir and sit up as Xavier and Beast come
out into the hall.
Everyone waits with baited breath for something... anything.
AND LOGAN EMERGES. He sees to limp a little, most likely
tender all over and will be for some time. But his injuries
are not the concern just now. The issue today is his uniform.
CYCLOPS
Well... I have to say... You look pretty
cool.
It is a uniform not too unlike the one he was wearing, not
too unlike the others. But his seems to be more severe, more
menacing, indeed more of an expression of the Logan we have
come to know. His new gloves are complete with specially
designed, reinforced holes to allow the claws to extend and
retract, which they do even now the way one might stretch
one's fingers before playing the piano.
All in all, it is a uniform, but it in no way obscures the
individual .
They all move closer, smiling, almost laughing. Logan looks
at them a little awkwardly.
XAVIER
Welcome home, Logan.
ALL /STAGGERED
Welcome home.

107.

LOGAN
What do you guys think about "Wolverine?"
We'll cut away now to spare everyone the agony of watching a
group hug.
INT. PLASTIC PRISOV - DAT
A CLEAR, PLASTIC HALLWAY
That's right, PLASTIC. Everything we can see - walls,
ceiling, floor - is made, entirely, of thick, clear plastic.
DOWN THIS HALL TO:
A THICK PLASTIC CELL
There, in the middle, at a clear plastic desk, with two clear
plastic cups filled with the only thing of color other than
the two men in the room.
Xavier and Magneto.
They play a friendly game of chess.
Magneto is notably without his trademark helmet.
Xavier is in a modified plastic chair with plastic wheels.
MAGNETO
Doesn't it ever wake you in the middle of
the night? The feeling that some day,
some day very soon, they will pass that
foolish law - or one just like it - and
they will come for you and your children?
Take you all away?
XAVIER
It does indeed, Max.
MAGNETO
And what do you do when you wake up to
that?
XAVIER
I feel a great swell of pity for the poor
soul who comes to that school looking for
trouble.
MAGNETO
That's no answer.

108.

XAVIER
No... I suppose it isn't.
Xavier makes a move, Magneto counters. Xavier moves again.
MAGNETO
Why do we play this game, Xavier?
XAVIER
Perhaps because we are each the only one
the other trusts not to cheat.
MAGNETO
But you must know that it is a war. And
to win a war takes the will to fight it
at all costs, by any means necessary. For
that reason, I will alvays be at an
advantage. No matter how you trap me, how
I am contained Chess pieces seem to visually mimic their conversation,
Xavier's white pieces slowly surrounding Magneto's Black
King.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
I will always find an escape.
XAVIER
But you seem to forget one little thing.
MAGNETO (CONT'D)
And what is that?
XAVIER
That I can simply read your mind, Max.
And I will always know your next move.
And with that.
Xavier makes one, placing his queen gently down, taking away
a knight.
Check.

XAVIER (CONT'D)

Just then, the door to the cell opens. A Guard waits.
Magneto and Xavier stare at one another with a strange
rivalrous smile before Xavier turns and wheels himself out of
the room.
The door closes behind him, leaving Magneto alons with his
plastic chess set in his plastic cell.

109.

And Magneto looks at the pieces before him.
to him. He smiles a wicked smile.

Something occurs

And his rook LEVITATES, despite its properties, moving across
the board and toppling Xavier's king.
And mate.
BLACK.

MAGNETO

